Everton's Theo Walcott: 'Sam Allardyce can get best out of me'
© Offside
Everton star Theo Walcott says that the chance to work with Sam Allardyce was a major factor in his decision to join the club.
Filed: Wednesday, February 7, 2018 at 20:37 UK
Last Updated: Thursday, February 8, 2018 at 17:32 UK
Everton winger Theo Walcott has revealed that the chance to play under Sam Allardyce was a major factor in his decision to join the club.
The former Arsenal star said that the Blues coach is helping him play to his potential, and he backed his boss to reverse the Merseyside outfit's fortunes.
"Sam was one of the main reasons why I came to the club," Sky Sports News quotes Walcott as saying. "I wanted a manager like that, who could get the best out of me. He is eager to turn results around.
"I had that short stint with Sam with England, and to see it now every day, the way the intensity of training is and how demanding it is, has been great.
"I like to go into training every day and try to be better than the day before. I want to improve the team and anything I can do to help, I will do so."
Everton faced Walcott's former club Arsenal last weekend in the Premier League and suffered a 5-1 drubbing at the hands of the Gunners.
Share this article now:
Tosun prepared to "battle" for Everton spot
>
Enter your email address to subscribe to Sports Mole's free match previews newsletter! Updates are sent twice a week.
You May Like
View our homepages for Theo Walcott , Sam Allardyce , Football
Follow @SMEverton to get every Everton headline from Sports Mole, and follow @SportsMole for the latest breaking news stories
Recommended Next on SM
Tosun prepared to "battle" for Everton spot
Result: Grigg shatters City's quadruple hopes
Live Commentary: Wigan Athletic 1-0 Manchester City - as it happened
Mangala could miss the rest of the season
Allardyce: 'Walcott can give the team talk'
Tosun: 'Hard to adapt to Premier League'
Milivojevic: 'Allardyce one of the best'
Rooney: 'Tevez my favourite strike partner'
Your Comments
Everton's Eliaquim Mangala could miss the rest of the season with injury
Besiktas vice-president Ahmet Nur Cebi: 'Door open for Cenk Tosun return'
Everton planning move for Atalanta BC midfielder Josip Ilicic?

