Save
Liberty announced the signing of eight players for its 2018 signing class Wednesday to go along with the 19 who were signed back in December . The Flames brought in four high school seniors, three junior college transfers and a Power 5 transfer who will not be eligible until the 2019 season.
Here is a breakdown of those eight newcomers:
» Chris Barrett, TE, 6-3, 245, ASA Miami/Clearwater, Florida
Barrett redshirted the 2016 season at Georgia Southern before heading to the JUCO route with ASA College Miami. In his lone season there, he caught 10 passes for 114 yards. He was a three-star recruit and the 75th-ranked tight end in the country coming out of Countryside High School.
“Talented young man. He’s an all-around tight end that can be able to block, can be able to catch,” Gill said. “He’s that true guy who defines tight end and being able to do all those things -- block at the line of scrimmage, block away from the line of scrimmage, catch passes in the flats area, he can do downfield, has good hands, he can also get himself in a three-point stance. He’s a multi-purpose guy.”
» Marcellous Harris, DB, 5-11, 190, Harding University High/Charlotte, North Carolina
Harris was the Flames’ third verbal commitment back in June and never really wavered in his commitment despite not signing in December. He had 52 tackles, five pass breakups and a touchdown during his senior season, which was cut short by an undisclosed injury. He also had offers from Army, Navy, Charleston Southern and Gardner-Webb.
“Physical kid. His team won a state championship, but unfortunately he did get injured there and didn’t get a chance to play in that football game, but man, he’s very talented and can be very, very physical,” Gill said. “He can run. He’s from Walt Aikens’ old high school, so all those types of connections there was fantastic.”
» Johnny Huntley, WR, 6-3, 220, Colorado/Plantation, Florida
Huntley doesn’t really fall into the “signing class” category, but Gill discussed the wide receiver who has to sit out the 2018 season and will have two seasons of eligibility remaining.
“A transfer from Colorado that came in here this winter. He’s already here in school,” Gill said. “ … Just a phenomenal person who can really make a lot of tremendous plays. He will have to sit out this football season. What I do can say about him is he’s going to be impactful this year. He knows how to lead. He has experience, he’s played at the highest level, he’s been on a team with 7-on-7 with Buckshot, so there’s a lot common things there that we have with Johnny Huntley, him being a part of our football program, and he eventually will have two years to play for us.”
» Jessie Lemonier, DE, 6-3, 240, Ventura College/Hialeah, Florida
Lemonier chose Liberty over offers from Miami (Ohio), New Mexico, UMass and Portland State. He was the 2017 Southern California Football Association Northern Conference defensive player of the year after posting 79 tackles, 18.5 tackles for a loss, 8.5 sacks and an interception.
“He was the defensive player of the year in the junior college league he played at. Fantastic player, can run, get off the ball, so fantastic and explosive,” Gill said. “His brother [Corey] has played in the NFL and played defensive end there, too. He’s going to be very impactful.”
» Rick Lester III, S, 6-2, 180, Saint Pius X High/Houston, Texas
Lester was the TAPPS defensive player of the year and Houston defensive player of the year as a senior. He racked up 137 tackles, nine interceptions, six forced fumbles and three sacks as a senior. He also had offers from Abilene Christian, Northern Colorado, Tennessee-Martin and nine other FCS programs.
“A guy who is really, really physical, can flat-out run, plays at really more of an outside linebacker, safety, spur position at his high school,” Gill said. “We’re looking to play him as a DB, safety, spur, whatever it may be. He’s very, very talented and can run around and play.”
» Brandon Robinson, QB 6-4, 215, Irvington High/Maplewood, New Jersey
Robinson had offers from Central Michigan and Elon. He threw for 2,038 yards and 21 touchdowns on 147-of-234 passing and also rushed for 409 yards and five touchdowns as a senior.
“A big young man, does a lot of great things,” Gill said. “He can throw, he can run. Very impressed of being able to make some things with his feet. He can throw off-balanced. He can make a lot of great throws there for us. We’re definitely excited about what he’s able to do there out of New Jersey.”
» Ja'Von Scruggs, CB, 5-11, 175, Appomattox High/Appomattox
The only local product to sign in the Flames’ inaugural FBS class. Scruggs also had offers from Division II programs. He finished his senior season with 130 total tackles (75 solo), three tackles for a loss, a team-high eight interceptions and 17 pass breakups. Scruggs was a quarterback and defensive back on each of the Raiders’ three straight state championships.
“A three-time state champion, great leader on the team, a great tremendous person who is about the spiritual aspects of his life, leads his team in FCA and so on,” Gill said. “Very talented … played quarterback for them, made plays in all different ways. I’m very, very excited to have him being a part of it because he knows how to do things and he knows how to win.”
» Isaac Steele, DB, 6-0, 180, Mesa Community College/Phoenix, Arizona
Steele played one season at Mesa CC after transferring from Arizona, where he did not play in his lone season there. He had an offer from Northern Arizona after finishing with 47 tackles, seven pass breakups and an interception with the Thunderbirds. He was a two-star recruit out of Centennial High School in Phoenix.
“He’ll have three to play three. I’m excited what he can do,” Gill said. “Physical, can run, can do the things we want our DBs to be able to do from that perspective.”
Follow Damien Sordelett on Twitter: 

