Share on Messenger
Close
Patrice Evra is the third defender over 30 to have arrived at West Ham in the past 12 months, following on from José Fonte and Pablo Zabaleta. Photograph: West Ham United FC/West Ham United via Getty Images
It should probably surprise no one that West Ham have signed Patrice Evra . After all, they have previous when it comes to taking a punt on a player who has been banned for lashing out on a football pitch. Just over 19 years ago it was Paolo Di Canio, who arrived at Upton Park on the back of “Alcockgate” and, as the Guardian’s Jon Brodkin wrote at the time, with “ more eyebrows than glasses ” raised in east London. The Italian went on to shine and the hope for those of a claret and blue persuasion will be that Evra can do the same.
West Ham certainly need a lift given the slump that has seen them exit the FA Cup and slip to only three points above the relegation zone . Injuries are mounting, as is supporter dissatisfaction with the board following an underwhelming transfer window, and if that were not enough the club sacked their head of recruitment Tony Henry last week after he made disparaging comments about African players. Whichever way you look at it, West Ham are sliding into another crisis.
West Ham sign Patrice Evra on deal to end of season
Read more
Evra cannot solve that on his own but the Frenchman’s return to these shores three and a half years after he called time on a hugely successful spell at Manchester United brings clear benefits: experience, a winning mentality and, perhaps most significantly, the guarantee of a player desperate to prove a point.
The 36-year-old has not kicked a ball in anger since he launched an angry kick at a Marseille supporter before a Europa League game at Vitória de Guimarães in early November. He was banned by Uefa from all European club matches for seven months, fined €10,000 (£8,829) and had his contract terminated by Marseille 10 months after arriving from Juventus. It was an unhappy end to what had been a frustrating return to France for the veteran full-back but now comes Evra’s chance to play football again and remind those who may have forgotten that he is still around.
Having signed a contract at West Ham until June, the former France captain could feature as early as Saturday at home to Watford. With Arthur Masuaku serving a six-match ban for spitting at Wigan’s Nick Powell last month, a space at left wing-back is open, with Aaron Cresswell the only other option. The 28-year-old played there in the 1-1 home draw with Crystal Palace and last week’s 3-1 defeat at Brighton – two unhappy experiences and, as such, David Moyes may see the visit of Javi Gracia’s side as the ideal time to select a player he worked with during his time in charge at Old Trafford.
Whether Evra can flourish in a system that requires wide defenders to cover a lot of ground remains to be seen. It would not have been a problem when he was in his prime – strong defensively while also a rampaging, astute presence in attack – but now, with Evra closer to his 40th birthday than his 30th, it may be. If his recent Instagram postings are anything to go by he remains in good shape but advancing age is advancing age and however well he has looked after himself, Evra will feel the burn of time course through his legs when he steps back into English football.
In that regard what appears to be a no-risk signing carries an element of a gamble and asks a wider question of West Ham’s transfer policy given Evra has become the third defender over 30 to have arrived there in the past 12 months, following on from José Fonte and Pablo Zabaleta. Throw in James Collins (34), Winston Reid (29) and Angelo Ogbonna (29) and West Ham’s rearguard looks creaky.
There is, though, no doubting Evra’s pedigree. He has won five Premier League titles and a Champions League with United, two Serie A crowns with Juventus and 81 caps for his country.
Marseille suspend Patrice Evra after kick at fan as Uefa takes action
Read more
He will also light a rocket in a dressing room that may well be in the doldrums, partly through his desire to play again and partly through an eccentric character carved from an unconventional path to the top.
Born in Senegal, Evra grew up in the Parisian suburb of Les Ulis where as a teenager he got involved in scrapes and petty crimes, including what must surely be the most French misdemeanour ever – stealing croissants.
From there came spells in Italy and back in France before Evra established himself at United, an eight-year period filled with plenty of highs as well as the upsetting, disruptive low of the Luis Suárez affair .
Now Evra is back and anyone wondering whether he has lost his spark should go back to that Instagram account of his and check out the video posted there on 17 December . Having just finished a workout, Evra slaps a manikin, gives it a kiss, slaps it again and then, straight to camera, shouts: “I love this game!” It’s surreal, bizarre, weird and wonderful, and for West Ham proof that they have acquired a unique footballer.
Topics

