Mike Lynch named Syracuse football's sole offensive coordinator
Updated
February  8, 2018 at  1:20 PM
; Posted
February  7, 2018 at  2:29 PM
Syracuse football assistant Mike Lynch will be the team's sole offensive coordinator this season.(
Stephen D. Cannerelli | scannerelli@syracuse.com
sbailey@syracuse.com ,
syracuse.com
Syracuse, N.Y. -- Mike Lynch will serve as Syracuse football's sole offensive coordinator this season, head coach Dino Babers said on Wednesday.
Lynch shared OC duties with Sean Lewis the last two seasons while working directly with the offensive line. But with Lewis off to take the head coaching job at Kent State and two new assistants hired to the staff (Kirk Martin, quarterbacks; Mike Cavanaugh, offensive line), Lynch will now oversee the entire unit.
Before being hired at SU, Lynch worked under Babers at Bowling Green and Eastern Illinois. He coached running backs for BGSU in 2014 before being promoted to co-offensive coordinator/running backs coach/offensive line coach in 2015. At EIU, Lynch worked with the running backs (2012-13) and, before Babers took over, the wide receivers (2006-11) and tight ends (2005).
He previously coached tight ends at Utah State and Montana.
Babers was also asked about the hiring of quarterbacks coach Kirk Martin during his National Signing Day press conference. While he did not address any potential hesitancy in hiring his in-law , Babers emphasized Martin's experience compared to his past quarterback coach hires (Lewis and Sterlin Gilbert).
"When you look at it, Kirk's got a heck of a lot more experience and knowledge than both of those individuals (when they were hired)," Babers said. "So I think when we get him here and we train him to what we like to do on offense, I think we'll have a higher-quality, a sharper-sparkling diamond than we had with the first two."
Stephen Bailey covers Syracuse football for The Post-Standard/Syracuse.com. You can follow him  on Twitter  and  Facebook . He can also be reached anytime  via email  or phone (315-427-2168).
View Comments

