February 07, 2018 03:05 PM
The Southern Miss football program announced seven new signees on Wednesday with a heavy emphasis on defense.
USM head coach Jay Hopson and his staff put a focus on adding depth on that side of the ball, especially on the defensive line. USM announced three defensive linemen.
Here’s a breakdown of the USM signees:
Shannon Carswell (Freeport, Florida) — He is one of the bigger high school defensive tackles that Southern Miss has signed in a while. He is listed at 6-foot-4, 295 pounds.
Never miss a local story.
Sign up today for unlimited digital access to our website, apps, the digital newspaper and more.
SUBSCRIBE NOW
Offer list: Florida, Florida Atlantic, Troy, UAB and UCF
Coach’s take: “I’m very excited about him. He has a bright future. He’s a big guy – 6-4, 295 pounds. He’s a strong kid, can bench the house. He can squat 600 pounds. He’s a guy we look forward to coming in and making an impact right away.” — USM defensive line coach Derek Nicholson
Nick Dawson (Northeast Oklahoma A&M) — He is a big defensive end at 6-4, 270. He had 27 tackles and 6.5 sacks last year.
Offer list: Memphis, Arizona, Bowling Green and New Mexico
Coach’s take: “He’s a great football player. We look forward to him making an immediate impact for us. An end that’s dynamic and get to get the passer in a variety of different plays. He’s an every down football player. He plays the run just as good as he gets after the quarterback. In my opinion, he’s one of those NFL-caliber players.” — Nicholson
T.J. Harvey (Columbus, Georgia) — The 5-foot-11, 185-pound long-snapper committed to the Golden Eagles in July.
Offer list: He drew late interest from Georgia and Georgia Tech.
Coach’s take: “He’s a necessity for any team with his ability to long snap. He does a great job of placing the ball where it always needs to be.” — USM offensive line coach Erik Losey
Ky’el Hemby (Iowa Western CC) – At 6-foot-1, 205 pounds, Hemby will bring nice size at safety. With USM losing its top two corners from last year, Hemby should play immediately with three years of eligibility remaining.
Offer list: Tulsa and UTSA
Coach’s take: “We’re very excited for him. He’s very smart, very intelligent. He’s an instinctive football player, a downhill thumper from the safety spot. He’s athletic at 6-1 and he runs a 4.4. He’s a mature guy I think the world of.” — Nicholson
Deuntra Hyman (Meridian) – At 6-4, 235, Hyman is one of the big gets for 2018. He flipped from Ole Miss to Southern Miss late in the process. He had 83 tackles and 10 sacks as a senior.
Offer list: Ole Miss, FAU, Florida State, Kansas, Kentucky, Memphis, Louisiana Tech, Mississippi State, Purdue and Tennessee
Coach’s take: “He’s a big time pass rushing specialist. He was definitely a big time get for us. He’s big, he’s tall, he’s fast. He’s definitely a very physical football player and we are extremely excited to have him.” — USM defensive coordinator Tony Pecoraro
Trivenskey Mosley (Shreveport, La) – USM needed another running back to add to the mix and Mosely is a 5-10, 195-pound runner from Shreveport.
Offer list: Louisiana-Lafayette, South Alabama, UTSA and Tulsa
Coach’s take: “He runs violent. I had a defensive coordinator tell me that he runs with hate in his heart. He’s a versatile kid who can catch the ball out of the backfield. We feel like he’s a dynamic running back who can come in and compete and get bigger, faster and stronger.” — Scotty Walden, USM running backs coach
Malik Shorts (Jefferson Davis County) — A 5-foot-11, 180-pound defensive back, Shorts maintains USM’s tradition of bringing in speedy players from Bassfield.
Offer list: Memphis, Louisiana Tech, Louisiana-Lafayette, South Alabama and Tulane.
Coach’s take: “He’s definitely a big time player for us. He’s another great player from Bassfield to keep that connection alive. We’re definitely very excited about him. There’s a big opportunity for him to come in. There’s definitely a need in the backend and we can’t wait to work with him.” — Pecoraro.
SHARE

