Ohio Football Completes Signing Class With Addition of Buckner and Wood
Feb 07, 2018
ATHENS, Ohio – The Ohio football program completed its 2018 signing class as a part of National Signing Day Wednesday adding two student-athletes to their group that signed during the early signing period.
Ohio added wide receiver Jerome Buckner (Columbus, Ohio/Gahanna Lincoln) and safety Jeremiah Wood (Pickerington, Ohio/Pickerington Central High School). Which brings Ohio's 2018 signing class to 21 including seven student-athletes from Ohio. 
Head coach Frank Solich and assistant coach/recruiting coordinator Brian Haines will meet with the media at a 5:30 p.m. press conference at Peden Stadium then the entire Ohio coaching staff will discuss the signing class with fans at a 6 p.m. gathering also at Peden Stadium.
Ohio's Full 2018 Signing Class can be found here -  http://www.ohiobobcats.com/signingDay/fball/2017-18/index
Jerome Buckner | WR | 5-9 | 165 | Columbus, Ohio | Gahanna Lincoln High School
Prior to Ohio: Racked up 4,642 receiving yards during his high school career while scoring 44 touchdowns. Had 1,127 yards as a senior with 14 touchdowns averaging 11.6 yards per catch. Was a three-time All-State and All-Metro selection and four-time All-League and All-District honoree. Was named Offensive Player of the Year once and team MVP three times. Also lettered four times in track and field. Was named Academic All-Ohio twice.
Personal: Son of Otis J. Buckner and LaToyia D. Rose. Birthday is August 29, 2000. Interested in majoring in sports management. Nickname is Buck. Also lettered in track four years. three-time State Champion in track, two-time national runner up in open 400.
Jeremiah Wood | S | 6-0 | 200 | Pickerington, Ohio | Pickerington Central High School
Prior to Ohio: Racked up 60 solo tackles, 100 total tackles, 10 touchdowns and two interceptions as a senior at Pickerington Central High School where he led his team to the Division I State Championship and a No. 23 national ranking. Served as team captain as a senior. Was a four-year letterman and earned First Team All-Conference his last three years. Was a two-time All-District and All-State selection.
Personal: Born January 6, 2000. Son of Jamie and Tricia Wood. Planning on studying engineering at Ohio. Was a four-time Distinguished Honor Roll selection.
 

