February 8, 2018 8:03am EST February 8, 2018 8:00am EST The rich got richer on National Signing Day, so who is going to catch the five major powers in the FBS in 2018?
Kirby Smart (Getty Images)
Published on Feb. 8, 2018
Feb. 8, 2018
Watch NCAAFNCAA Football with fuboTV
The rich got richer. Everybody else is in big trouble. 
National Signing Day re-emphasized that lack of parity in college football once more, and if you're looking for parity in the College Football Playoff era, you'd better look elsewhere. Georgia, Alabama, Clemson, Ohio State and Oklahoma all brought in reinforcements with top-10 classes and a plethora of five-star talent.
MORE: National Signing Day tracker
Those five schools have already accounted for 12 of 16  possible playoff appearances over the last four years. Oregon is the only other FBS school to win a playoff game, though the Ducks were eventually beaten by the Buckeyes. When sizing up early top-25 polls for 2018, those are the top five teams; when picking teams capable of winning the national championship, that's where the short list starts.
National Signing Day showed why that list might get even shorter. Georgia, which boasts the nation's  No. 1 class , reeled in seven five-star players after winning the SEC championship in 2017. The last four national champions are in business too.
Alabama, a two-time national champion in the playoff era — without even winning the SEC in 2017 — added five-stars in defensive end Eyabi Anoma and cornerback Patrick Surtain Jr. to another blue-chip class.
Clemson returns it entire defensive line and added the best player from five different states.
Ohio State landed three five-star players — including tackle Nick Petit-Frere on signing day — and received news that defensive coordinator Greg Schiano is staying in Columbus. 
Oklahoma, the three-time defending Big 12 champion, added even more talent, and this isn't even Lincoln Riley's first full recruiting cycle. 
Who's going to break up that monopoly? There are more questions than answers.
MORE: Georgia claims top class of 2018
That starts with the two contestants in the College Football Playoff championship game. Auburn seems to be the best bet to disrupt a rematch between the Bulldogs and Crimson Tide in the SEC championship game next season, but the Tigers have to travel to Athens and Tuscaloosa this time.
Ohio State leads a loaded Big Ten again. Penn State also hauled in a top-10 class under James Franklin. Michigan needs to do more with Jim Harbaugh. Wisconsin and Michigan always do more with less, but will that be enough? The Buckeyes are 9-2 against those schools the last four years, and the two losses were by three points each.  
What about the other conferences?
Texas enjoyed a monster in-state haul under second-year coach Tom Herman in the Big 12, but the Longhorns also have won nine games or fewer the last eight seasons.
The Pac-12 didn't field a playoff team in 2015 or '17, meaning it's on USC or Washington to get there first.
Miami and Florida State put together nice classes under Mark Richt and first-year coach Willie Taggart, but how much time do they need to close the gap on three-time defending ACC champion Clemson?
Notre Dame enjoyed a 10-win season and a top-10 class in 2017, but the Irish have less margin for error without a conference championship game.
It's OK to get excited about other first-year coaches such as Nebraska's Scott Frost, Florida's Dan Mullen, Tennessee's Jeremy Pruitt and UCLA's Chip Kelly, but it will take a few top-10 classes before they're truly in the mix. In the meantime — like we said before this year's College Football Playoff — prepare for more reruns . It's a safe bet at least two or three of the playoff teams will come from that short list of Alabama, Georgia, Ohio State, Oklahoma and Clemson.
MORE: The best H.S. players you ever saw: SN makes its picks
The Bulldogs established their membership among that group with a 13-win season and SEC championship in 2017. Oklahoma hasn't won a playoff game yet, but the Sooners are 42-11 the last four years with those three straight conference championships.
The other three? Alabama (53-5), Ohio State (49-6) and Clemson (50-7) have combined for a record of 152-18 in the College Football Playoff era. That's a winning percentage of .894.
That's a big number, and the big classes continue to follow. 
The gap is growing. The rich just got richer. Who's going to make it worth their trouble to stop it? 

