&bullet; "Immortal" never-ending chairman career
&bullet; All cups and European competitions
&bullet; Take over other clubs
&bullet; Load/create datapacks with teams from round the world
&bullet; No adverts, no internet connection needed
£ 2.99
"Any footy fan has got to purchase this game!"
Olly Murs
Singer/Songwriter
"If you like football, and you're prepared to be enslaved by a game, try Football Chairman"
Mark Watson
Comedian, TV Presenter, Novelist
"Anybody looking at downloading a footy game, get Football Chairman - without doubt the most addictive game about and very easy to play"
Scott Murray
Former Pro with 600+ appearances
"Forget football management simulators, this is the future! This has to be the most addictive app I have ever had, simple quick and fun!"
Maplo16
App Store Review
"Brilliant, just absolutely brilliant! An already great game has been made even better! I don't mind the cost for the new version at all, as you can tell just how much work has been put into this with all the new features and additions there are."
Lee Davies
App Store Review
"A worthy sequel to a fantastic game. A HUGE amount of additions make this game worth buying. Had hours of fun on Football Chairman."
Chris Andrews
App Store Review
"Great game! This game improves each update. I have played both the previous versions and once again this one is thoroughly addictive. Great work."
Andy White
"Such a good game! The best iPhone game I've played. Thanks for making it! #Impressed"
TheFellowGamer
Twitter Game Review
Help/Contact Us
If you've got a query about the game, please have a look at the FAQs below and see if your question is answered.  If not, please click the mail icon at the bottom to send us a message through our contact form.
Can I load a game from one version of the app into another?
Yes, you can import saved games from earlier versions of Football Chairman into Football Chairman Pro.
From the main summary screen on the first app, click the 'Spanner' icon in the top right corner
Enter an email and password and save your game
From the main summary screen of the new app, click the 'Spanner' icon in the top right corner
Enter the same email and password as before, then choose 'Load Game', and then your should see some 'Import' options further down the screen.
Please note that all imported games will begin at the start of a new season, even if your game was saved mid-season.  This is so that the new game can add any additional data that wasn't included in the earlier version.
Can I save the game on one device and then load it to play on a different device?
Yes, you can. Saved games are compatible between different devices, including from Android to iOS and vice-versa.
My saved games have gone missing!
If you saved the game on our servers then the saved game(s) will definitely still be there - the only reason they wouldn't show is if the email or password were spelt incorrectly either when you originally typed them or the second time round.
The most common reason for this happening is when people mis-type their original password without realising. If you've tried various combinations and still can't find your saved games, fill in our contact form and we'll check the database for you.
I'm having trouble with the in-app purchases (iOS users)
The first thing to check is whether in-app purchases are actually allowed on your device.  To do this, go to Settings > General > Restrictions.
If there are no restrictions in place, then rebooting your phone often solves the problem.  You may also need to sign out and back in to your iTunes account.
How do I exit the game? (Android)
Although the game disables your device's 'back' button, most Android devices have a 'Home' button somewhere that allows you to return to your main phone screen. Alternatively your device may also have a 'task manager' button that enables you to switch between apps.
The game freezes or shows a blank screen when I try to run it
Close the app down completely and try relaunching it.  If that doesn't work, try rebooting your device and then relaunching the app.  If it still doesn't work, try uninstalling the app then download it again from the app store.  Please note though - uninstalling should always be the last resort because you will lose any unsaved game data.
Phishing scam emails
If anyone receives a suspicious email claiming to be from Football Chairman or Apple and requesting any bank or personal details, they should delete it immediately without clicking any of the links or attachments.
This is a common phishing scam email which uses the name of popular apps to fool people into entering their bank details.
At Football Chairman we don't handle any payment transactions ourselves.  All purchases are dealt with securely by the app stores: Apple, Google or Amazon.  We never have access to anybody's bank or card information, and will never send an email requesting any personal or financial details.
Get in touch!
Please fill in the form below if you have some feedback for us.
Send Message

