Pinterest
Érik Lamela, in action here against AFC Wimbledon this month, says: ‘I had the doctors telling me I’d get back to my level but your head doesn’t let you relax.’ Photograph: Reuters
When Lamela returned to London, he was shaken by the death of his dog, Simba – it was akin to a family bereavement, as any dog owner would attest – and, all the while, the hip problems were not getting any better.
Lamela went to Rome last January for a change of scene and to visit his trusted physiotherapist from his Serie A days.
“He’d said that we could treat it without an operation,” Lamela says. The hope proved ill-founded. Lamela trained but he continued to feel pain. “That’s when I took the decision to have the surgery,” he says. From a seemingly innocuous injury, the 25-year-old ended up losing a chunk of his career and not for the first time. He missed the second half of his debut season at Tottenham in 2013-14 because of a back problem.
“It hit me hard,” Lamela says. “There were really sad days for me, particularly being here in London. OK, I’m with my close family but I’m here to play football. I can’t lie. If it weren’t for that, I would be back in Argentina. You’re so far from the rest of your family, your friends, the things you hold dear. You are in that place just to play football, so it’s an ugly situation. You want to play but you are unable to do so.
“I am someone who can’t be without football – I have to play so it was incredibly hard. I had the doctors telling me the whole time that I’d get better, I’d get back to my level, but your head doesn’t let you relax. There were always doubts running around. I worried that I might never be OK again.”
There were really sad days, particularly being in London. OK, I’m with my close family but I’m here to play football
Lamela faced an additional issue, which comes with the territory of being a high-profile footballer and makes him smile broadly – the wild rumours on social media. “I will answer this question because it makes me laugh,” he says. “These things always get back to you eventually and I heard thousands of complete inventions while I was injured – that I’d tested positive for drugs; that I wanted to leave Tottenham. They were things that people had invented.
“It’s normal as a footballer that you’re going to hear these sorts of rumours but the most important thing is that you keep your head focused on what is important – your family. I’m a calm person and I was able to do that. When you focus on the important things and keep your head, that’s when good things will come to you.”
For Lamela, the good things have come, even if he is a major doubt for Saturday’s FA Cup tie at Newport with a bruised glute. He and his girlfriend, Sofia, celebrated the arrival of their first child, Tobias, on 25 November and three days later Lamela made his comeback in the 2-1 Premier League defeat at Leicester . On as a late substitute, he set up a goal for Harry Kane within two minutes. He describes the assist as a “beautiful moment”.
Lamela has done a lot of growing up over the past year or so and he has new-found perspective – largely because of Axel’s accident and Tobias’s birth. “I don’t think I’ve ever felt such happiness as I’ve done with my son,” Lamela says. “It’s something completely unique and I’m just making the most of it every day. It has changed me.”
What has always shone through with Lamela is his strength of character. The setbacks do not break him; they drive him. He says that he did not see a sports psychologist during his annus horribilis because he never felt the need. “I have a lot of belief in myself and I am also someone who has a lot of faith in God,” Lamela says. “I get a lot of strength from my Catholicism.”

