February 07, 2018 07:19 AM
Athens
By the end of National Signing Day, Georgia hopes to have the nation's No. 1 recruiting class.
In December, the Bulldogs signed 20 players and vaulted to the top of the list. Ohio State has since taken the top spot. So there will be competition on that front between the two programs.
Follow along here for updates throughout the day.
2:19 p.m.: Every national letter-of-intent is now in as Liberty County defensive tackle Tramel Walthour's signature has been confirmed by UGA.
Never miss a local story.
Sign up today for unlimited digital access to our website, apps, the digital newspaper and more.
SUBSCRIBE NOW
2:18 p.m.: Receiver Tommy Bush's letter-of-intent is now in. Bush became the second receiver of Georgia's class of 2018, joining Peach County's Kearis Jackson.
2:07 p.m.: Quay Walker has faxed in his national letter-of-intent. The only letters-of-intent Georgia has yet to announce are from Tommy Bush and Tramel Walthour. Bush announced on Twitter his letter was faxed in and The Telegraph's Brandon Sudge confirmed that Walthour sent his letter in.
1:54 p.m.: Georgia announced that Tyson Campbell's national letter-of-intent has arrived. Campbell became Georgia's seventh five-star recruit of the class of 2018.
12:57 p.m.: Georgia now has 26 commitments for the recruiting class of 2018. Twenty enrolled early. Thus far, Georgia has announced that Mallard Creek (Charlotte, North Carolina) defensive tackle Jordan Davis and Lee County safety Otis Reese have sent in their national letters-of-intent. The Telegraph's Brandon Sudge confirmed that Liberty County defensive tackle Tramel Walthour has sent his letter-of-intent to Georgia. That leaves Georgia to confirm it has received letters-of-intent from Tyson Campbell, Quay Walker and Tommy Bush.
12:18 p.m.: Receiver Tommy Bush announced his commitment to Georgia. He chose the Bulldogs over Baylor, Mississippi, Texas and Michigan State.
12:08 p.m.: While much of the focus is on Georgia's recruiting class of 2018, the Bulldogs added the No. 6-ranked tight end in the nation in next year's class. Tight end Ryland Goede announced his commitment around noon. He will reunite with his childhood friends JD Bertrand and Dominick Blaylock.
11:51 a.m.: Georgia added another member to its 2018 recruiting class by adding outside linebacker Quay Walker . Walker was previously an Alabama commit who was also considering Tennessee. Walker faked out the crowd attending his ceremony by briefly putting on a Tennessee hat before throwing it across the room. He then revealed a Georgia shirt and put on a UGA straw hat.
11:18 a.m.: Otis Reese's national letter-of-intent is in. Reese's change of heart is huge for Georgia and devastating for Michigan. It is also of note that UGA is listing Reese as a safety and not an outside linebacker.
11:04 a.m.: Here's a note from Dawgs247's Kipp Adams about Georgia flipping Otis Reese from Michigan.
Just to show how #UGA is recruiting in this cycle, Otis Reese was the highest-rated member of Michigan's class. Now becomes the 11th highest-rated in the #Dawgs class. Likely soon to become 12th in the next thirty minutes. https://t.co/JFSMgBLVNc
— Kipp Adams (@KippLAdams) February 7, 2018
10:46 a.m.: Georgia has received a national letter-of-intent from defensive tackle Jordan Davis. Davis, a three-star recruit, played high school football at Mallard Creek in Charlotte, North Carolina.
10:43 a.m.: Georgia just flipped an in-state prospect from Lee County. Four-star outside linebacker/safety Otis Reese, who committed to Michigan two summers ago, changed his mind and will play for the Bulldogs instead. That gives Georgia two extra commitments Wednesday morning.
10:41 a.m.: Georgia is the first team to ever record seven five-star prospects, according to the 247Sports.com composite. The composite takes the average of the major recruiting websites -- 247Sports, Rivals, Scout and ESPN. But going only off of the Rivals rankings, Georgia has eight five-star prospects signed in this class.
10:15 a.m.: Georgia landed its seventh five-star prospect in the 2018 recruiting class with American Heritage (Plantation, Florida) cornerback Tyson Campbell. Campbell made his announcement on ESPNU.
"Kirby Smart just showed me a bunch of love," Campbell said on-air after he announced his decision. "I feel he was keeping it real with me from the get-go."
9:50 a.m.: While Otis Reese is scheduled to announce his decision at 10 a.m., it will apparently be a long ceremony with a lot of players signing. Reese will be among the last to announce, pushing his decision back to the 10:30 a.m. range.
9:43 a.m.: Scott Fountain is coming back to Georgia. After a short stint with Mississippi State, Fountain is heading back to Georgia for an on-field assistant job.
7:18 a.m.: Georgia is awaiting two commits to send their national letters-of-intent in. Those are from Mallard Creek (Charlotte, North Carolina) defensive tackle Jordan Davis and Liberty County defensive tackle Tramel Walthour.
The Bulldogs will also be looking at bringing in two or three of the following players: American Heritage (Miami) cornerback Tyson Campbell (announcing at 9:30 a.m.), Lee County outside linebacker/safety Otis Reese (10 a.m.), Crisp County outside linebacker Quay Walker (11 a.m.), Samuel Clemens (Schertz, Texas) receiver Tommy Bush (noon) and Concord (North Carolina) defensive tackle Rick Sandidge (2:30 p.m.)

