Activate your digital access.
Michigan State football looking to add a few more to round out 2018 recruiting class
Chris Solari , Detroit Free Press Published 7:00 p.m. ET Feb. 6, 2018 | Updated 7:03 p.m. ET Feb. 6, 2018
CLOSE
Lansing State Journal columnist Graham Couch, Detroit Free Press / LSJ MSU beat writer Chris Solari and 247 Sports' Jeremy Warnemuende break down everything you need to know about the 2018 MSU football recruiting class. Laura Trabka/Lansing State Journal
Buy Photo
Michigan State football head coach Mark Dantonio puts on a hat during his Signing Day press conference Wednesday, Feb. 1, 2017 at Spartan Stadium. Dantonio wore various hats to represent the new players.
(Photo: Julia Nagy, Lansing State Journal)Buy Photo
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
A lot has changed in the 2 1/2 months since Michigan State signed 20 players for its 2018 recruiting class.
And the timing of college football’s first early signing day may have helped Mark Dantonio and his program going into Wednesday’s national signing day, which comes less than two weeks after the program moved back under the microscope for how it handles allegations of sexual assault.
“I haven't heard a lot of negativity swirling around the speculation about the future of the athletic program as a whole and Mark Dantonio,” said Tom Luginbill, ESPN’s director of national recruiting. “They're obviously going to have to manage that, because those questions are going to be asked, but they can only answer based off of answers that they have. Kids will have to either trust in that or they won't.
“I think it will be much more damaging for them if we were sitting here under the old regulations and having to sign an entire class on Wednesday as opposed to just a few players.”
MSU picked up one commitment Saturday when Las Vegas Bishop Gorman wide receiver Jalen Nailor gave his pledge to send a letter of intent Wednesday, the first day of the traditional signing period. Assistant coaches said in December that the Spartans could possibly add up to four more players during the second signing period, with Dantonio saying they would be specifically focusing on adding more defensive linemen.
“You’re still working on those guys,” Dantonio said in mid-January, “but a lot of it is getting ahead for (2019). And I think recruiting is always been accelerated and you see that even more now.”
MORE: Couch: A look at 5 key recruits in Michigan State football's 2018 class
At least three of the 2018 targets – wide receiver Tommy Bush (Schertz, Texas), defensive tackle Dashaun Mallory (Bolingbrook, Illinois) and defensive end Habakkuk Baldonado (Clearwater, Florida) – have the Spartans among their finalists.
MSU’s 2018 class enters Wednesday rated No. 29 nationally and sixth in the Big Ten in the 247Sports Composite.
The Spartans are coming off a 10-3 season and a Holiday Bowl win over Washington State. They also return all but three starters, and a Dantonio-record 13 true freshman played in 2017.
“That's the youngest, most productive team that Mark Dantonio has probably ever had because they didn't play with a lot of redshirt juniors and redshirt seniors like you see them generally playing with,” Luginbill said. “They played with a lot of young guys. So this young class is going to be coming in to what is already a young team.”
A number of the 20 signees stuck with their commitments through MSU’s disastrous 2016 season, then sent their letters of intent in the first 3 1/2 hours on Dec. 20. Of those who signed that day, QB Theo Day , OL Dimitri Douglas , DB Kalon Gervin, DB Xavier Henderson , WR Julian Major and LB Edward Warriner all have enrolled in winter semester at MSU.
Three signees are 4-star players according to 247Sports.com’s composite rankings –  Gervin, Henderson and tight end Trenton Gillison. The other 17 signees are 3-stars according to those rankings. Rivals.com lists offensive lineman James Ohonba and linebacker Chase Kline as 4-star players as well.
MORE: A breakdown of the Michigan State football recruiting class, player by player
“I love what they've done on defense in this class,” Luginbill said. “When your top two graded players are 4-star corners (Gervin and Henderson), in my opinion, you've hit the jackpot because those are premium positions, and both of them have length. Everyone is looking for length on the perimeter on defense, tall corners that can match up with big wide receivers.
“They added a quarterback. They added a top ten tight end in Trenton Gillison, and then they've really done a good job in their offensive and defensive front. Parks Gissinger , in my opinion, is one of the most underrated defensive end prospects in this entire class. … So I'm really impressed with this class coming in.”
The Spartans had four players leave the program (QB Messiah deWeaver, WR Hunter Rison , WR Trishton Jackson and DE Lashawn Paulino-Bell). They also graduate 12 seniors and have three others leaving before their eligibility expires (offensive linemen Nick Padla, Jeremy Schram and Casey Schreiner).
Contact Chris Solari: csolari@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter @chrissolari.
What to watch
Here are eight players MSU fans should keep an eye on Wednesday during national signing day:
Dashaun Mallory, DT Bolingbrook, Illinois: A long-time Spartan lean, MSU is considered the favorite for the 3-star prospect, with Toledo, CMU and EMU in the mix according to 247Sports.com.
Habakkuk Baldonado, DE, Clearwater (Fla.) Academy International: MSU, Pitt and Central Florida are the three finalists for the 3-star prospect who is originally from Italy. He is expected to announce his decision at 10:30 a.m.
Tommy Bush, WR, Samuel Clemens High, Schertz, Texas: The 4-star wide receiver will pick between MSU, Georgia, Texas, Baylor and Ole Miss at 11:30 a.m. Wednesday on ESPN2.
MORE:  Michigan State recruiting: Tommy Bush, Habakkuk Baldonado are targets
Tennessee Pututau, OLB, East High, Salt Lake City: The Spartans appear to be picking up steam for the 3-star prospect, who is expected to pick home-state Utah according to 247Sports.com. BYU, Utah State and Washington also are reportedly in the mix.
Jairus Brents, CB, Waggener Traditional High, Louisville, Kentucky: A Louisville lean, according to 247Sports.com, the 4-star cornerback also has MSU, Pitt, Wisconsin and Alabama among his pursuers.
Tyler Carter, TE, Romulus: The unranked tight end has MSU and Ohio State pursuing him, according to 247Sports.com.
Dorian Hardy, DE, North Brunswick (N.J.): ESPN’s Tom Luginbill said to keep an eye on Hardy, a long 3-star edge rusher who is drawing interest from Penn State, East Carolina and Rutgers according to 247Sports.com.
Leonard Taylor, DE/TE, Springfield, Ohio: Another versatile 4-star player Luginbill thinks could be a fit for MSU. Taylor tweeted that he will be picking between Cincinnati, Kentucky, Louisville and Texas A&M.
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

