Tennessee football: What coach Jeremy Pruitt said about National Signing Day
Tennessee coach Jeremy Pruitt discussed the Vols National Signing Day.
Blake Morgan/SEC Country
Tennessee coach Jeremy Pruitt talked to the media about National Signing Day on Wednesday.
Here is a roundup of news and notes from their news conference.
DT Kurott Garland: Fits a need in the middle of the line.
DT Emmit Gooden: Been trying to get to Tennessee for a while now… He fixes us up inside.
DE John Mincey: Very athletic, plays basketball.
OLB JJ Peterson: Can play all four linebacker positions. He makes plays in space.
WR Cedric Tillman: Came across him a few days ago. Very impressed.
DE Jordan Allen: Trying to get to 245 pounds in a hurry.
OT Tanner Antonutti: Very athletic. Has a frame that will continue to grow.
RB Jeremy Banks: Can make you miss and runs with power… Big need to get a big physical running back.
P Paxton Brooks: Talented, excited to have him.
OT Jerome Carvin: Has a lot of power, strong guy.
DE Greg Emerson: He is working out right now. He has done an outstanding job.
DT Kingston Harris: He will be here in May. Very athletic with long arms.
OT Jahmir Johnson: Has three years left to play. Needs to put on some more pounds, but working hard to do it.
OG Ollie Lane: Really good line blocker. Getting stronger in the weight room.
DT Brant Lawless: Really good balance and body control.
QB JT Shrout: Excited to have him.
WR Alontae Taylor: Working really hard.
TE Jacob Warren: He knows he has to put on more pounds to play tight end.
TE Dominick Wood-Anderson: Can block and go out wide. He can be a mismatch guy.
On early signing period: First weekend we had guys in, we didn’t really have relationships. If you look at the class about half had never been here before we got here… The best recruiters can be the ones on the team… Moving forward our guys will really get into the recruiting process.
On recruiting class: Not sure if we are done with the class. We wanted to make sure these guys fit the criteria we were looking at the positions.
On the day: We are really happy with the day. We wanted to address the need up front defensively and we did that.
On cornerback need: I feel like we filled that need.
On Wood-Anderson getting academically: Absolutely, wouldn’t have signed if we didn’t think we would get clear.
Leave a Comment

