South Dakota gets faster in Signing Day, part II
Mick Garry , mgarry@argusleader.com Published 12:37 p.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018 | Updated 6:55 p.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018
South Dakota football coach Bob Nielson completed his third recruiting class for the Coyotes on Wednesday with an emphasis on receivers and defensive backs in the second part of the signing period.
(Photo: Andres Leighton, Andres Leighton, AP)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
VERMILLION – The South Dakota football program added speed and length in Part II of National Signing Day on Wednesday with Bob Nielson feeling good about what happened in both the first half and the second half of an effort to beef-up and speed-up the Coyotes.
Seven weeks ago South Dakota, coming off its first-ever Division I playoff season, announced the signing of 16 players with a list that was heavy with linemen. On Wednesday, it was more about the perimeter with defensive backs (3) and wide receivers (3). The class also includes two linebackers, a running back, an offensive lineman and a tight end.
Based on the other schools courting him, an obvious highlight on Wednesday morning was the signed National Letter of Intent from running back Canaan Brooks, of Lutheran North High School in St. Louis.
National Signing Day: Tracking South Dakota athletes
First of all, he’s the second running back signed for 2018 whose first name is Canaan. He joins Canaan Cox, a 5-8, 165-pound back who played at Remsen St. Mary’s (Iowa) and was part of the December portion of the class.
Second, he’s big at 6-feet, 210 pounds.
“He came from a great high school program,” Nielson said. “They’ve put out a lot of Division I players. He’s a different type of back, a bigger, more physical style of back that is capable of breaking tackles and turning short runs into long runs.”
Brooks ran for 1,438 yards and 33 touchdowns this past season averaging 9.8 yards a carry. According to Rivals.com among the schools offering him a scholarship were Illinois, Ball State and Northern Iowa.
“The success of our offense has definitely helped,” Nielson said. “The fact that we distribute the football and provide skills players the opportunity to be successful was a big part of the success of this recruiting class.”
Five players are from Florida, highlighted by receiver Wesley Eliodor, a 6-foot, 180-pounder who caught 48 passes for 941 yards and scored 10 touchdowns with a 10.71-second 100-meter time playing at Fort Lauderdale High School.
National Signing Day: South Dakota State adds 11 to football recruiting class
 Others are D’Andre Ferguson, a 6-1, 205-pound athlete who played running back, receiver and defensive back at Calvary Christian High School in Clearwater, Fla., Tre Jackson, a 5-11, 175-pound defensive back from Palm Beach Central High School, Rodney Sivils, Jr., a 6-2, 205-pound defensive back from Largo, Fla., and Jakari Starling, a 6-1, 205-pound defensive back from Palm Beach Lakes High School who had seven interceptions and two sacks this past season.
The class also includes the appropriately named Dakota Smith, a 6-2, 205-pound linebacker from Inglewood, Calif., and walk-on signees Ray Mazurek, a 6-4, 205-pound tight end from Holy Angels High School (Minnesota), Jarrod Peterson, a 6-1, 205-pound linebacker from Lino Lakes, Minn., who is the brother of sophomore basketball player Tyler Peterson, and Spencer Gavin, a 6-5, 260-pound offensive lineman from Indianola, Iowa.
“We think we’ve signed a group where there is a number of individuals who can play early on,” Nielson said. “That’s the one thing whether it’s defensive backs or running backs or wide receivers, guys who are physically developed have a little bit more of an opportunity to play early on because they don’t need that additional year in the weight room that a lot of your line positions need.”
This is Nielson’s third recruiting class for the Coyotes, who return 52 of 71 letterwinners from last year’s team, including seven returning starters on offense and nine on defense. It is his second class that includes a full cycle of recruitment.
National Signing Day: Madison seniors Jadon and Jaxon Janke commit to South Dakota State Jackrabbits
“I like the whole class for a number of reasons,” Nielson said. “We had some positions we truly had to address from a depth standpoint. We needed depth in the secondary, which, if you look at this class, there is a large group of defensive backs (4), both at corner and safety. The other thing is that we felt we had to add speed throughout our program, particularly on the defensive side. We feel good about the way that we’ve addressed that.”
The process has gone from taking athletes of every position to fine-tuning based on who is presently on the team.
“It’s something we’ve changed in our recruiting,” Nielson said. “Certainly you still weigh in that you’re looking for the best possible athletes, but also part of your recruiting every year has to be addressing specific needs that you have in your program that change slightly from year to year. I think this class demonstrates that.”
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

