Activate your digital access.
Livingston County football signings: Brighton's Buschman going to Eastern Michigan
Bill Khan , Livingston Daily Published 4:29 p.m. ET Feb. 7, 2018 | Updated 1:40 a.m. ET Feb. 8, 2018
CLOSE
Brighton football players Matt Buschman (Eastern Michigan), Kyle Hook (Lawrence Tech) and Andrew Meyer (Mount Union) talk about their college decisions. Bill Khan
Brighton linebacker Matt Buschman (10) has signed with Eastern Michigan University.
(Photo: Jim Jagfeld)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
If Matt Buschman was going to play college football at a high level, it was going to require a position change.
After playing solely as a wide receiver at Brighton as a junior, he moved to linebacker as a senior.
He believes he still has a lot to learn about playing defense, but Eastern Michigan saw enough in him to offer him a spot on the team as a preferred walk-on. Buschman will have the opportunity to earn a scholarship in the future.
“They really started recruiting me in the summer,” Buschman said. “That’s when I started my move to linebacker. I still have a lot to get better at, but I think it went pretty well.”
Buschman tied for fourth in Livingston County with four sacks among his 44 tackles. He played sparingly at wide receiver, but had two touchdowns among his four catches.
Buschman is familiar with EMU because his brother, Dan, recently completed his five-year career as a tight end with the Eagles.
“It’s going to be a great opportunity for me,” Buschman said. “I know a lot about the program. … A lot of good schools offered me opportunities to play there. I decided this was the best fit for me.”
Buschmann is the only Livingston County football player who committed to an NCAA Division I school.
Two other Brighton football players and two from Pinckney signed national letters of intent Wednesday.
Andrew Meyer
 (Photo: Submitted photo)
Brighton offensive lineman Andrew Meyer will attend the University of Mount Union in Ohio, and safety Kyle Hook will be part of the first-year Lawrence Tech program.
Pinckney is sending wide receiver Nick Cain (Davenport University) and linebacker Cauy Hendee (Ferris State) to the college ranks.
Meyer will be one of three Brighton graduates on the Mount Union roster next fall. Nick Brish and Brendan Klaus were starters on a team that won the NCAA Division III championship last season.
“Playing with two guys I already know will give me a head start on what I need to do, what I need to know,” Meyer said. “I’m very excited to go there. I know they have a winning record. It’s just going to be awesome to be part of a team that does something great every year.”
Kyle Hook
 (Photo: Submitted photo)
Hook was named Brighton’s defensive MVP after making 59 tackles, tops among defensive backs in Livingston County.
He’s looking forward to being in on the ground floor at Lawrence Tech, which is located in Southfield.
“They have a great up-and-coming program,” Hook said. “It’s in a good location. It should hopefully boom in these next couple years. It looks like a great school with a lot of opportunity.”
At Lawrence Tech, Hook will be a teammate of Hartland linebacker Tommy Lappin. Defensive back Ian Kenrick, who signed with Hillsdale, is Hartland’s other college football recruit.
Other Brighton athletes to sign with colleges were:
Tara Garbarz (cheerleading, Davenport), Niamh McRobbie (cheerleading, Davenport), Hannah Yaggie (cheerleading, Davenport), Zac Taylor (lacrosse, Illinois Wesleyan), MacCulley Barry (soccer, Saginaw Valley State), Emma Gould (soccer, Aquinas), Drew Billig (lacrosse, University of Indianapolis), Keegan Gormley (soccer, Davenport), Bella VanBuren (lacrosse, Lawrence Tech) and Tyler Hart (lacrosse, Lourdes University).
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

