Former Frogs, including Alamo Bowl hero, speak up about Listenbee lawsuit
In other words, it’s hard to predict a prospect’s success in the NFL.
“It’s tough to prove causation all the way around — the injuries and that he would have made it even without them,” Georgetown law professor Brad Snyder said.
Dunn agreed that the causation points are “three big hurdles he has to clear,” but doesn’t view it as far-fetched as others might think.
At the end of the day, Listenbee and his attorneys simply have to win over a jury. If each side has experts expressing differing opinions on the medical and NFL issues, a jury might side with Listenbee if he’s able to show that TCU and Patterson bullied him to play through an injury.
Patterson already has an unfavorable past in this department. In 2010, former team physician Samuel Haraldson told the American Medical News that Patterson “verbally accosted” him when refusing to allow running back Ed Wesley back into a game with a head injury that Haraldson diagnosed as a concussion.
In his lawsuit, Listenbee paints Patterson in that sort of light too. He claims Patterson and other assistants threatened to tell NFL scouts that Listenbee’s “not tough enough” to play in the NFL.
“The bullying thing could be a big plus for him (Listenbee),” Dunn said. “Let’s say it’s a close call on everything, so then the little things are what can persuade a jury. Let’s say it’s a close call for the jury, but Patterson comes across as a bully. They’re going to rule in the kid’s favor even if the kid really wasn’t rushed back too quickly just because Patterson’s a bully.
“A lawsuit is like a play or a dramatic movie where the jury is trying to figure out who the good guy is and the bad guy is. One expert says he was rushed back, one expert says he wasn’t. One says he would’ve made it in NFL, one says he wouldn’t. So the jury doesn’t know who to side with.
“But, if the one thing they know is Patterson is a jerk, or Patterson is a great granddad to these kids, that could be the determining factor. How are they going to view Patterson?”
On the flip side, Patterson and the school could poke holes in Listenbee’s case. An interview Listenbee did during his pro day at the school had him raving about the coaching staff and medical staff at TCU.
The injuries also didn’t stop Listenbee from posting the second fastest 40-yard dash time (4.39 seconds) among all wide receivers at the NFL Scouting Combine. Plus, the Buffalo Bills used a sixth-round draft pick on him in the 2016 draft and the Indianapolis Colts signed him to a reserve/future deal last month.
This has the makings of becoming a high-stakes game. TCU, Patterson and the rest of the defendants likely don’t want to settle this lawsuit and possibly open themselves up to more players suing them.
It’s not unheard of, though. The University of Illinois reached a $250,000 settlement last spring with former offensive lineman Simon Cvijanovic. Cvijanovic said former Illini coach Tim Beckman forced him to play through knee and shoulder injuries.
That might be a better option than possibly losing in court even if TCU, Patterson and the other defendants feel strongly about their side.
As Dunn said, “The flip side is you get popped for $1 million and now other players are like, ‘Wow, we’re going to be able to use that as a precedent when they’re acting bad again.’ It’s high stakes for TCU and coach Patterson and anybody else.”

