1 piece of mint (optional)
1 3-leaf clover
a little bit of water
salt
something dear to their heart
I figured I'd beg a sprig of mint off a bartender making mojitos and swipe some salt packets from a napkin stand. Clover seemed like it might be hard to procure (1) when the city was blanketed under a fresh snowfall, and (2) inside the Vikings' enclosed stadium—but I thought I might be able to locate a microgreen garnish atop a luscious steak that I also thought I might be able to locate. A tape, pen, and paper, I was sure, would reveal themselves to me quite easily. It was the Super Bowl. Anything was possible.
Turns out most things were not possible. Not only did I not stumble upon a hidden field of clover, or steak garnished with microgreens—I couldn't find mint anywhere. One after another, bartenders shook their heads. None of the custom cocktails ("Jalapeno Pineapple Margarita," "Mai Tai," "Aviation") contained mint. No item available for purchase at the boldly named "Wild and Fresh Market" contained mint. I couldn't even find gum containing mint.
After about 30 minutes of searching (what was going on on the field, I have no idea), I came upon a promising lead: shrimp tacos. Mint and shrimp go together like dogs and logs! I ran my wild eyes over the menu description. No mint, but there was cilantro. It would have to do in a pinch. I asked the cashier if I could have a cup of cilantro, and offered to pay for it. She was reluctant to make me pay $11 for a commemorative Super Bowl cup just so I could have something to carry my cilantro in, but she was willing to have me pay $11 for Diet Pepsi in a commemorative Super Bowl cup and give me an employees-only paper cup of cilantro (pre-mixed with chopped red onion) on the side. She filled my commemorative cup up to the brim with icy cold fountain soda—something I would love under normal circumstances, but this cup's purple holographic design made it extremely slippery to hold, and the cup lacked a lid.
"Could I have a lid?" I asked.
"We don't have a lid for that," she said. Odd, but not a big deal. I walked to another stand and asked for a lid.
"We don't have any lids," an employee informed me. "People leave them on the ground, so we just don't have lids anymore. Even with a bottle of water, we're supposed to keep the lid."
I had never before encountered a lidless society, and after carefully placing my commemorative cup brimming with unchecked soda on a nearby table, I sent an excited message to my editor: "No lids ANYWHERE. You CAN'T GET A LID"
"I'll give you a point if you find a lid," he wrote back.
But here's what he didn't know: I had already procured a 100 percent illegal lid for myself. [Ed. note: Wow.] A young man working behind the counter had discreetly slapped a plastic lid on the paper cup—designated for employee use only—containing my cilantro, to prevent it from spilling all over my bag.
"SICK," I responded to my editor. [Ed. note: WOW.]
Bonus Item No. 26: Find a lid. COMPLETED. 10 to go.
I am the Devil's Mistress (Part I)
Loose salt for my spell proved surprisingly hard to find, until I realized I could buy a soft pretzel and scrape off some of its enormous white crystals.
For water, I requested "the cheapest bottle of water you have" from a woman working at still another concession stand. In a manner that suggested it physically pained her to have to tell me this, she revealed that the cheapest water she could give me was $6.
For an object dear to Tom Brady, I selected a T-shirt commemorating the exciting day, with the names of all his stupid friends on the back.
I bought a commemorative Super Bowl pen (also $6) at a souvenir pop-up shop that spanned two floors of the stadium, and featured ghostly white statues of football players, benched forever in heaven.
The pop-up contained a FedEx booth where customers could pay to have their purchases shipped directly from the game. A FedEx employee allowed me to have a piece of tape for free. (THANK YOU!!!)
I tore a piece off a jumbo paper towel roll left on a table in a women's restroom and went into a stall to perform my dark deeds.
"Draw a large pentagram on the paper and write their first and last name in the center," the instructions read. "Sprinkle a little salt on the name."
"Then, drip some water on to the condiments."
"Tear up the clover and mint (if mint is present), and sprinkle on to the water."
"Place the special item on to the name. Lean down to the paper and chant the bad spell."
Good luck go, Go away. But bring all of the bad to stay. And for this spell, I must pay a price. With something dear, As well as nice. This is my will, So Mote It Be!
"Fold the paper in half hamburger style, and then hot dog style. Repeat until paper is small enough to fit in your pocket."
"Tape the paper shut and carry it around in your pocket, purse, etc."
"Remember, how long the spell will last depends not only on the strength of the caster, but of the experience of the caster as well."
Immediately after I completed this spell, the Patriots scored their first touchdown, which made me think perhaps the cilantro had been a bad idea.
Item No. 5: Cast a spell on the Patriots to lose. COMPLETED. 9 to go.
A Hologram in Real Life
Can you believe I only saw one person dressed as Prince at the Super Bowl in Minneapolis?
Item No. 14: Take a picture of someone dressed as Prince. COMPLETED. 8 to go.
I had eaten a hot dog for the Father, and the Son, so now it was time to eat one for me, Caity. To inject some color into my life, I decided to try one that was inexplicably enormous.
If you can explain the mysteries of this great and terrible hot dog, please get in touch with me. It had a very bad taste, and every time—every time—I bit into it, scaldingly hot hot dog water flew onto my face and glasses. Item No. 3: Hot Dog 3 Times: COMPLETED. 7 to go.
Lucifer’s Son Reveals Himself
Justin Timberlake's halftime show was one of the eeriest events I've ever witnessed. For nearly his entire performance, the tens of thousands of people seated in the stadium sat motionless. They did not dance. They did not sing. They did not talk. They simply stared politely forward, the way you might if someone were giving a mildly engaging talk just before lunch at a business conference. All sounds of screaming excitement emanated from a group of people who appeared to have been brought onto the field and clustered around Timberlake's temporary stage specifically to provide an illusion of screaming excitement. I never knew something so loud could be so quiet. When Justin Timberlake commanded the crowd to hold their phones in the air, no one complied. Before the show, folks in my section had received detailed instructions about what to do with two mini flashlights placed at everyone's seats; few abided by them. The only song to generate even a moderate crowd response was "Can't Stop the Feeling!"—a song Timberlake recorded for the soundtrack to the animated film Trolls about which he once said the following :
"I have always envisioned bringing the two worlds of film and music together for one epic event [and] couldn't be more excited that they will collide in DreamWorks' Trolls."
By far the most exciting and visually impressive moment of the performance came at the very end, after Timberlake had left the stage, when the mob of dancers who'd gathered to perform choreography with what appeared to be huge pieces of neon-colored cardboard were forced to run to the exits, to clear the field.
"That's it?" asked a woman behind me. She was correct.
I Am the Devil’s Mistress (Part II)
My increasingly frantic Twitter pleas generated very little in terms of material progress, which should serve as an important reminder that the spirit of democracy and camaraderie fostered by the Internet is an illusion; people do not care about you that much, and everyone will die alone, probably without ever having been the proud owner of an officially licensed Philadelphia Eagles Refrigerated Beverage Center. However, the Internet was somewhat helpful in two ways:
One Twitter user brought my quest to the attention of ESPN host Katie Nolan, who offered to help by submitting a photo of herself as evidence of a Patriots fan "looking good."
https://twitter.com/katienolan/status/960320735658086400
What Katie did not know is that I had requested this item be added to the list as a single impossible task, to keep me humble because only God is perfect. Can a person ever truly "look good" once they have been positively identified as a Patriots fan? I contend the answer is no. Nonetheless, I did appreciate Katie's effort, so I awarded her photo a half point.
Later, seconds after a Patriots touchdown and subsequent crowd roar, I saw a man in a Tom Brady jersey run out of a men's room yelling, "What'd I miss?" As I watched him, he craned his neck to an elevated TV screen and unleashed a guttural "FUCK!" his face contorting at his own misfortune. I thought that looked pretty good, so I awarded myself another half point and declared Item No. 9: Find a Pats fan looking good COMPLETE. 6 to go.
The other manner in which social media very nearly proved helpful was when I received the following direct message from a stranger in regards to Item No. 6: Get an Eagles fan to perform black magic with me.
As it turned out, I did not need that person's cousin's husband to join hands with me in league with Satan; while I was finishing up my third hot dog, a woman in an Eagles coat approached my standing table and asked if I wouldn't mind watching her drink while she went back to the bar to get another for her husband, because they would only sell her one at a time.
"I'll do it if you perform a spell to curse Tom Brady with me when you get back," I said.
"Fine, then," she agreed in a heavy Southern drawl. (She later told me that she was from South Carolina, married to a Philly native.)
True to her word, when she returned, she chanted the following words with me over a pile of, basically, trash that I had made:
Good luck go, Go away. But bring all of the bad to stay. And for this spell, I must pay a price. With something dear, As well as nice. This is my will, So Mote It Be!
Item No. 6: Get an Eagles fan to perform black magic with me. COMPLETE. 5 to go.
The Dead Bird Omen
One helpful but not terribly well-publicized amenity the venue offered was free charging stations. It was at one of these that I saw a white-haired man from Philadelphia folding bills into his wallet.
"Excuse me, sir," I said. "I'm doing a scavenger hunt to win a mini fridge with the Eagles logo on it. One of the things on my list is 'earn money.' If you wouldn't mind giving me a dollar, it would be a huge help."
"Sure," he said, and peeled off a dollar.
Item No. 7: Earn money. COMPLETE. 4 to go.
"What else is on your list?" he asked.
I pulled up the list on my phone. "You haven't met Beyoncé, have you?" I asked. (Item No. 4: A personal story or previously unknown fact about Beyoncé.) He hadn't.
"I could have helped you with that one earlier," he said, pointing at Item No. 25: "Dead bird."
"You saw a dead bird?" I asked. This item was on the list because a friend had informed me that huge numbers of birds keep flying into the beautiful reflective glass of the stadium and dying.
He nodded silently.

