► Denzil Ware participating in team activities again after bowl suspension
Ohio State also reportedly made a late push for Oats, but a planned official visit to Columbus on the final recruiting weekend before signing day was canceled and the Winton Woods High School star ultimately picked Kentucky on National Signing Day.
“Whether you believe Ohio State dropped Chris Oats or whether you believe Kentucky outrecruited Ohio State, it really doesn’t matter,”  247Sports.com Ohio recruiting analyst Bill Greene  said. “It matters to fans on message boards, but at the end of the day when you’re trying to win games you’ve got to get the best talent you can get and Kentucky landed a really good one in Chris Oats.”
“This was truly a kid that (OSU) targeted since he was a sophomore. Beating them on this kid it just says volumes for a lot of these other kids.”
Vince Marrow, on Chris Oats
Oats is one of two players in Kentucky's 2018 class rated as a four-star prospect by each of the three major recruiting services. The Cincinnati Enquirer named Oats its Ohio Division II Defensive Player of the Year after he totaled 87 tackles, forced two fumbles, recovered four fumbles and grabbed one interception while helping lead Winton Woods to the Division II state championship game.
Of the 40 players Kentucky has signed from Ohio in Stoops’ first five signing classes and the early signing period in this cycle, just two were listed as holding Ohio State scholarship offers in Rivals’ database. Neither of those players was believed to be a take for the Buckeyes by the time they signed with Kentucky.
Ohio State reportedly made a late push for Youngstown native and UK signee Lynn Bowden last year, but the Wildcats have almost lost every previous prolonged head-to-head recruit battle with the Buckeyes. Earlier in the 2018 cycle, Ohio State beat Kentucky for top target L’Christian “Blue” Smith .
“Our logo right now probably the last three years has been the second-most dominant logo recruiting in Ohio,” Marrow said. “It’s just when Ohio State came in you always were nervous. Are they going to come and offer this kid? They had a lot of Big Ten offers, but when you get that Ohio State offer every kid in that state, just like Kentucky, they want to play for their state school.”
Greene and UK coach Mark Stoops credited Marrow’s personal relationship with Oats as being key in securing his pledge Wednesday.
“I always felt they were in good shape with Oats described his relationship with Marrow as a father/son relationship,” Greene said. “That meant a lot to me…I never heard him talk that way about any other head coach or any other assistant coach at any other school. Even when I thought Ohio State might be able to win this one, that always stuck with me.”
CLOSE
UK coach Mark Stoops talks signing day, new staff additions Jon Hale/Courier Journal
Marrow also said the new early signing period, which allowed Kentucky to sign 20 of its 24 recruits in the class in December , was key in allowing him to put the full-court press on Oats in January. Had UK not signed four other Ohio prospects in December, Marrow said he likely would have had to split his time in January holding the Buckeyes off for at least another couple of those recruits.
One week before signing day, UK sent its entire defensive staff to Cincinnati for Oats’ basketball game and a home visit.
“I think that was the turning point,” Marrow said.
“He can cover in the pass. He’s athletic enough to cover in space. He also can rush the passer off the edge with his speed.”
Bill Greene, on Chris Oats
Oats was projected as an outside linebacker by most of the recruiting services, and Greene said Wednesday that’s still where he sees the four-star prospects’ future. At Kentucky though, he will start his career at one of the two inside linebacker positions in the base 3-4 defense.
“I think he can be a Jordan Jones type for them,” Greene said. “…He can cover in the pass. He’s athletic enough to cover in space. He also can rush the passer off the edge with his speed.”
And while those Ohio State message boards may be unlikely to agree with Marrow that the Buckeyes truly recruited Oats as hard as he claimed, the result remains the same.
“They did a great recruiting job with him,” Greene said. “Even aside from what happened with Ohio State, you still had to be a lot of other good teams for Chris Oats. He was a pretty desired guy, and Vince Marrow really dug in on this one early in the process and he wanted him.”
Jon Hale: jahale@courier-journal.com ; Twitter: @JonHale_CJ . Support strong local journalism by subscribing today: www.courier-journal.com/jonh .
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 2 COMMENTEMAILMORE
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

