'no formal action'
Watford striker Troy Deeney gets warning but escapes charge over middle-finger celebration against Chelsea
Hornets frontman faces a written warning regarding his future conduct but was not punished because three-man panel were not all in agreement
By Sam Morgan
7th February 2018, 6:46 pm
Updated: 7th February 2018, 9:23 pm
TROY DEENEY will avoid a formal punishment from the Football Association over his goal celebration in the 4-1 victory over Chelsea on Monday night.
Deeney broke the deadlock from the penalty spot but courted controversy when he appeared to make an offensive one-fingered gesture towards the Vicarage Road crowd.
PA:Press Association
Troy Deeney will not be charged by the FA for putting his middle finger up in celebration
A three-man panel failed to agree on whether his action merited a retrospective red card.
Deeney, who has already served three and four-match bans this season, only faces a written warning regarding his future conduct.
An FA spokesperson said on Twitter: "Watford's Troy Deeney will not face any formal action following his goal celebration during the game against Chelsea on Monday [05/02/18].
"Video footage was referred to a panel of three former elite match officials who were asked to consider independently whether it was a red card offence.
EPA
The Watford skipper made a one-fingered gesture after his goal
AP:Associated Press
Troy Deeney scored the first in the 4-1 rout at Vicarage Road
Latest football news
Watch Wigan ace Grigg’s stunning goal in slo mo with ALL the vital stats
NO HELL LIKE IT
Man Utd legend Andy Cole reveals how nephew saved life with kidney donation
BBC cut
Manchester United target Gareth Bale 'already knows' Real Madrid will sell him
city-ng out
Pep Guardiola plays down spat with Wigan boss Paul Cook after defeat at Wigan
I CAN BE ED BOY
Hazard loves comparisons to Messi and Ronaldo as he aims to reach the top
FAN MADNESS
City fans launch hoardings, seats and bottles at police after Wigan defeat
"The response was not unanimous, therefore, no disciplinary action will follow. Nevertheless, The FA will write to the player and warn him as to his future conduct."
The panel's decision means Deeney will be free to play in the clash against West Ham on Saturday.
Watford 4-1 Chelsea: Antonio Conte staring into the abyss after Hornets’ late goal blitz embarrasses ten-man Blues
TROY-ING TO STOP Deeney seeks psychological help to stop on-field indiscipline
Javi Gracia's side's hammering of the Premier League champions has been viewed as ushering in the end of Antonio Conte's Stamford Bridge reign.

