Outside linebacker: Marty Strey
Athlete: Mike Gregoire
Note: On Tuesday night, athlete/safety John Torchio verbally committed as a walk-on , though Wisconsin has not yet confirmed his National Letter of Intent.
— Coach Marlatt (@CoachMarlatt) January 16, 2018
The Early Enrollees
Five players from this class—Burton, Cruickshank, Mustapha, Pearson, and Williams—are already enrolled at the university and participating in Wisconsin’s winter conditioning.
It should be interesting to watch during fall camp how these players develop and possibly position themselves for contributing roles on this team.
A post shared by Wisconsin Football (@badgerfootball) on
Jan 24, 2018 at 10:03am PST
Prepare to win.
— Wisconsin Football (@BadgerFootball) January 26, 2018
Who Could Contribute Early?
Last year, Jonathan Taylor , Danny Davis , Adam Bay , and Madison Cone all found time on the field in Wisconsin’s 13–1 season. Who could be called upon for 2018?
Granted, my thoughts here are completely based on the projected positions of need.
Related
How first-year Badgers shaped a 13-win Wisconsin team
Bryson Williams—defensive line: We covered Williams in our roundtable back in December, but I really think Williams—if he can adapt to the college game quickly—has an opportunity to provide depth at nose tackle. Looking at pictures and speaking with him about his lifting routine late last year, he appears physically ready to take on the responsibilities of a two-gap lineman.
Related
Roundtable: Breaking down Wisconsin’s class of 2018 (so far)
Who steps up on the defensive line is a big question considering that Wisconsin loses three senior defensive ends in Chikwe Obasih , the NFL Combine-snubbed Alec James , and Conor Sheehy . Nose tackle Olive Sagapolu is the only returning starter, and presumably (OK, definitely) Isaiahh Loudermilk will fill one of the end positions. Does would-be junior Garrett Rand swing out to end, where he may be better despite holding his own with his strength and being around 270 pounds?
If Williams, who enrolled early and will take advantage of those 15 spring practices starting in March, can show that he can take on those early responsibilities (still a lot to ask for a first-year player), I believe that could allow defensive coordinator Jim Leonhard and defensive line coach Inoke Breckterfield flexibility and one more player to use while searching for the best combination of linemen next season.
Cornerbacks: With Nick Nelson and Derrick Tindal gone, Wisconsin’s starters at that position for 2018 will be would-be redshirt sophomore Dontye Carriere-Williams and one other defensive back. That could include the likes of Madison Cone , Faion Hicks , or Caesar Williams in a group that lacks significant playing experience on defense outside of Carriere-Williams, the third cornerback in Wisconsin’s nickel package last season.
Could the next four cornerbacks in this class—Burton, Blaylock, Smith, and Wildgoose, Jr.—push for playing time and land themselves in the two-deep? As mentioned earlier, Burton enrolled early and could get a jump start.
In this Storystream

