England captain Eoin Morgan understands decision to overturn Jason Roy's 'catch'
Glenn Maxwell benefitted from the decision on his way to a century
By Sam Drury
Eoin Morgan says there is no obvious solution to the issue of contested catches
Eoin Morgan says there is no obvious solution to the issue of contested catches
England captain Eoin Morgan admitted he could understand why the third umpire chose to overrule the on-field 'soft signal' and give Glenn Maxwell not out after Jason Roy appeared to have caught him.
Maxwell was on 59 when he miscued the ball into the deep off Adil Rashid and Roy came running in and claimed a low catch during the T20 Tri-Series clash between Australia and England.
The batsman was unmoved, and despite the umpires on the field offering a 'soft signal' of out as they sent it upstairs, the third umpire looked at the replays and adjudged that the ball had been grounded.
What would have been Adil Rashid's second wicket was eventually chalked off
"We all know TV makes it look worse than it is," Morgan said. "I trust (Roy's) call and I agreed with the (on-field) umpire's call. But I can understand how it got overturned.
"I don't know how (to improve the system), I don't have a solution. If there's no right answer to something you can't correct it. I'm all for reviewing but there's no solution to it yet."
Former Australia skipper Michael Clarke in the Channel Nine commentary box was convinced that Roy had taken the catch cleanly, while ex-England all-rounder Paul Collingwood was equally sure that Maxwell should have been given out.
How can that be no out @JasonRoy20 has got his finger underneath the ball!! Don’t people realise that grass is longer than the depth of your finger being squeezed into the turf but he’s caught the ball!! @ICC need to look at this #AusVsEng
— Paul Collingwood (@Colly622) February 7, 2018
The boos aimed at Roy from the home fans as the replays were shown on the big screen suggest they felt otherwise but, like Morgan, Maxwell himself was diplomatic about the situation.
"I definitely didn't have a clear view, it's just one of those where you never know what it might look like when they send it up to the third umpire," he added.
"As a fielder you think you catch it. The rule states if the ball touches any part of the ground (it's not out) and it looked like it was touching part of the ground when it came up on the big screen.
Glenn Maxwell went on to hit a match-winning 103no after the decision was overturned
"The umpires told us what was going on and ruled in my favour, luckily.
"If they're going to send it up to the third umpire, you're using the technology for the advantage of having the best views. You're trying to get the best decision for the game and making sure all the little errors in cricket are scratched out by technology.
"With those ones where it doesn't go completely cleanly into your hands and it's more of a fingers catch, you always have that little bit of doubt and you're almost trying to convince yourself that it's out. The umpire ruled in my favour, so I'm pretty happy."
Having received the benefit of the decision, Maxwell, who was also dropped by Alex Hales when on 40, went on to hit the winning runs, bringing up his century in the process as Australia maintained their 100 per cent record in the T20 Tri-Series.
Also See:

