Peterson: 'Boooooom!' Iowa State's Matt Campbell lands statement recruit in Brock Purdy
Randy Peterson , rpeterson@dmreg.com Published 11:30 a.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018 | Updated 4:08 p.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018
CLOSE
Perry quarterback Brock Purdy announced that he will attend Iowa State University to play football during a signing ceremony on Wednesday.     Tom Tingle/azcentral.com
Perry's Brock Purdy (13) looks to pass during the state football quarterfinal playoff against Hamilton at Gilbert High on Oct. 20, 2017.
(Photo: Cheryl Evans/azcentral sports)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN 2 COMMENTEMAILMORE
Iowa State recruits a quarterback. Let’s call him Brock.
For a while, Iowa State is the only Power Five scholarship offer that Brock is really considering. Central Florida and Boise State, two excellent programs, already offered.
But for Brock, it’s about Power Five football.
Suddenly, Alabama ups its walk-on offer to a full scholarship offer to join its national championship football program.
Nick Saban finally offers a scholarship, and suddenly Texas A&M follows.
The competition for Brock gets a lot stiffer:
Alabama, Texas A&M and Iowa State.
I’ve heard of coaches — not only at Iowa State — but at other places, too, that would have tapped out of this high stakes game for the guy generally considered to be the best unsigned quarterback of the 2018 recruiting class, in the nation. 
Matt Campbell didn’t get out. Instead, he went all-in.
Five Cyclones staffers hopped on Cyclone One last week for one last visit. His chips were on the table. All of them, and Wednesday came the payout: Brock Purdy is a Cyclone.
As Iowa State recruiting coordinator Alex Golesh tweeted moments after Purdy announced his pick: "Boooooom!"
I don’t know if this kid from Gilbert, Arizona, is good enough to someday lead Iowa State football to places it’s not been, but I know this:
Perry's Brock Purdy rushes during a two-point conversion against Chandler in the fourth quarter during the 6A Arizona State Championship on Saturday, Dec. 2, 2017, at Arizona Stadium in Tucson, Arizona.
 (Photo: Sean Logan/azcentral sports)
Campbell isn’t backing down from anyone — including Saban flashing his national championship rings, and Jimbo Fisher showing off all his glitzy facilities in College Station, Texas.
Once again, Campbell showed that Iowa State his staff and his program can hang with college football’s high-rollers — both on the field and in recruiting.
“I want to go someplace where I can develop and get ready for the NFL," Purdy told me when I caught up with him in the airport on his way back home from the Alabama visit.
When Alabama offered, people assumed this recruitment was over. How do you say "No" to THAT program? 
Well, Purdy did. In fact, Saban's Tide did not even make Purdy's final two. 
For Campbell and his staff, the wait was worth it.
The 6-foot-1,195-pound Purdy, Arizona's National Gatorade Player of the Year, threw for 4,400 yards and 57 touchdowns during his senior season at Perry High School.
Perry quarterback Brock Purdy was Arizona's National Gatorade Player of the Year.
 (Photo: Patrick Breen/azcentral sports)
His statistics included throwing just nine interceptions and rushing for 1,015 yards and 10 touchdowns.
He’s a three-star recruit, according to 247sports. He's the No. 36 quarterback in the 2018 recruiting class. Considering how college coaching staffs fought over him, those rankings might be low.
During our airport conversation, he said he wanted to play as soon as he was ready, although he knew that 2019 was more likely than 2018.
"It'd be nice, I guess, but I know it might not be reality," he said when asked if he figured to play now. "It doesn't matter to me, as long as I can develop."
— Cyclone Football (@CycloneFB) February 7, 2018
He mentioned to me Iowa State’s upward-trending program. He knew Iowa State was loaded at receiver going forward. He knew the offensive line is much improved.
He said he wanted to go someplace where a good passing game and good running game can co-exist on the same field and in the same locker room.
He believes that place is Iowa State.
Iowa State columnist Randy Peterson has been with the Register for parts of five decades. Randy writes opinion and analysis of Iowa State football and basketball. You can reach Randy at rpeterson@dmreg.com or on Twitter at @RandyPete.
 

