Save
Placing a call to the Graves’ family home in Gibsonville on Tuesday the excitement I heard in their voices was evident.
Dominique Graves, a 6-2 left-handed quarterback from Eastern Guilford, and his twin brother, Kendyl, are two of the incoming recruits Coach Kienus Boulware and his staff have landed. The class will be finalized sometime later this week and I'll have a full story on the signings for Friday's newspaper.
Teressa Graves, who is Dominque and Kendyl’s mother, says she’s excited that they are going to the same college.
“It’s great that they can spend four more years together,” Teressa said. “They have a great relationship and are very competitive with each other and that includes academically.”
The twins helped Eastern Guilford to a 12-3 record as they made it to the state semifinals. And they are also very good in the classroom sporting 3.5 grade point averages.
Dominique was the Greensboro News & Record player of the year this past season.
He passed for 2,072 yards completing 61 percent of his passes for 18 touchdowns and seven interceptions. He was also a very good runner going for 1,248 yards on 223 carries with 23 touchdowns.
Coach Doug Robertson of Eastern Guilford said earlier this year that Dominique has also excelled in the classroom.
“Dominique is a dynamic athlete,” Robertson said. “He is an even better person. He is a leader for our football team and for our school. He not only won many athletics awards, but also won an academic award for the highest GPA on the team.”
Dominique, who is also a starter on Eastern Guilford’s basketball team, says one reason he chose WSSU was because the coaches were on him early.
“WSSU was the only school that offered me a scholarship,” Dominique said. “They were the first ones to do so and I jumped at the chance. I’m excited about it and can’t wait to get there later this summer.”
Rod Tinsley, a three-year starter, will be the incumbent heading into the fall but Graves says he hopes to get a shot at playing.
“The coaches indicated that I won’t be redshirted and will get a chance to compete for the starting job,” Graves said.
The Rams are expected to sign about 20 players for this coming fall. Among those who will sign two will likely be transfers but the rest of them are incoming high school players.
Get today’s top stories right in your inbox. Sign up for our daily morning newsletter.

