2017. SUPER BOWL. 1-1 With New England-3 and the Under 58-Points.
2016. College Football Regular Season 500-star Signature Betting Predictions. 71-30.
2016-17. NFL and College Football Late Breaking Information Picks. 47-13.
2016-17. NFL Regular Season Record on 500-star Signature Betting Picks. 64-34-5.
2016-17. NFL Late Breaking Plays. 2-3.
2017. NFL Playoff Record. 7-7-1.
2017- NFL Signature Plays 15-6.
2017. Late Breaking NFL and NCAA Football Plays 17-6.
2017-18. NCAA Football Bowl ATS Predictions 20-8.
The Cleveland Browns should be lining up to sign Cousins, at just twenty-nine years old with six years of experience the Browns wouldn't be an instant playoff contender but would fare much better than the past two season's.
"RG111" got a chance in the city nicknamed the "MISTAKE BY THE LAKE" so why not the guy who beat him out of a starting job.
Many experts believe the Browns should sign Cousins and still draft either Josh Rosen or Sam Darnold and they could learn from Cousins.
The Cleveland Browns are not as bad as it seems and have talent at every position except quarterback; they could also use a grind it out a type of runner in the rushing attack.
Head Coach Hue Jackson is not on the hot-seat they way he should be, and management seems to commit to the current head coach.
The Cleveland Browns have won one game in the past two seasons which is unacceptable.
Owners Jimmy and Dee Haslam along with General Manager John Dorsey should do what's right for one of the most loyal fanbases in the National Football League. Kirk Cousins will come with a hefty price tag but what do they have to lose.
DeShone Kizer showed promise, but it wasn't enough to earn the team a victory. Cleveland drafted Myles Garrett, Jabrill Peppers, and talented Tight End David Njoku in the first round of the 2017 NFL draft.
The Cleveland Browns also have an All-Pro offensive tackle Joe Thomas also played in the Big Ten at the College level is rallying for Cousins, and he should have some input on the decision.
Wideouts Josh Gordon, and Corey Coleman are deep threats but need a quality quarterback to get them the football. Fans in the "LAND" should protest it the Browns don't sign Kirk Cousins.
Bovada.Lv list the 2018-19 Cleveland Browns at over/under four, and a half wins for the 2018-19 NFL season.
The high popularity of the league has made the Nfl free picks really important and in high demand. These picks are based on the latest information and about what is happening behind the screen. These football sports picks can be highly effective to predict what actually is going to happen in the coming match. So, naturally the fans and followers are ready to go to any extent to get their hands on these picks. The good news here is that, followers can get them even for free, just being a patron with Charlie Red McDougall, the owner of Charliessports.com.
This professional has been in this business for over last 30 years and maintains great connection with players from different teams participating in the NFL and other sports leagues. The company holds the best handicappers and has been providing its customers with great returns. The company has come up with different packages for their customers so that they can get football picks for no extra cost. The company also offers similar packages for other sports like baseball and basketball. So, if you are interested to be a member of the club just check their official website http://www.charliessports.com/ or call directly to their toll free customer care number 1.866.644.6366.      
Our professional team of sports handicappers dominates on  NFL Picks ,  NBA Picks  and  MLB Picks.
 

