KAP FITS
Nottingham Forest set to sign Greek goalkeeper Stefanos Kapino after Olympiacos axed him
Championship club pounce for ex-international No1 - weeks after he was kicked out of owner Angelos Marinakis’s old club
By Alan Nixon
7th February 2018, 6:19 pm
Updated: 7th February 2018, 6:19 pm
NOTTINGHAM FOREST are close to signing Greek keeper Stefanos Kapino - just weeks after he was kicked out of owner Angelos Marinakis’s old club Olympiacos.
Former international number one Kapino left his homeland when his contact was settled up early because of a serious of disputes.
Getty Images - Getty
Stefanos Kapino is on the brink of joining Championship side Nottingham Forest
However, the 23-year-old turned up at Forest , also part of the Marinakis empire, and can join them as a free agent.
Kapino, who has nine caps, has not played since a row over his display in a defeat to Aek Athens in October.
And he now becomes the FIFTH senior keeper at Forest.
Reports suggest Kapinos - once linked with Arsenal and Manchester United - is already in the midlands for a medical.
Getty Images - Getty
Greek keeper Stefanos Kapino, who has nine caps, lost his Olympiacos place at the end of last year
Getty - Contributor
Stefanos Kapino has played for Greece at all levels from U-17 upwards
But Greek giants Olympiacos are yet to confirm he has been released.
If he has been freed, that means he can join another club, Forest , outside of the transfer window.
Kapino started his career with Panathinaikos, drawing interest from Premier League clubs, plus Inter Milan and Napoli.
Instead he joined Bundesliga side Mainz 05 in 2014 and signed for Olympiacos a year later.
AP:Associated Press
Stefanos Kapino has been down on his luck with Olympiacos after a steady start to the season
Goals of the Weekend: Watch the finest strikes from Saturday, Sunday and Monday's Premier League games
most read in football
Guardiola and Cook involved in furious tunnel bust-up after Delph is sent off
CITY AG-RO
Sergio Aguero in amazing skirmish with fan after Man City crash out of FA Cup
CITY SHAME
Man City's shock defeat descends into chaos as Pep, Aguero and fans clash
Kylian's club
French giants PSG can now officially call Kylian Mbappe one of their own
REID IT & WEEP
Peter Reid steps in to stop bust-up between Pep Guardiola and Paul Cook
Taxi for Alan
Baggies boss Pardew given two games to save his job after 'taxi-gate'
But after beginning this season as first-choice keeper he lost his place before the transfer window.
MLS clubs have also reportedly shown interest in Kapinos.
But now he is on the brink of completing a deal with mid-table Championship side Forest.
Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved.
Stefanos Kapino had a rollercoaster time with Olympiacos, including getting injured against big rivals Panathinaikos in November 2016

