BYU football adds eight more players to 2018 recruiting class, Dylan Collie still out there
Posted by
Other Apps
BYU head coach Kalani Sitake (Photo Jaren Wilkey, BYU Photo)
A month and a half ago, the BYU Cougars announced 14 new members of the football team during the first ever early signing period. Today, eight more National Letters of Intent came in for BYU.
The good news is BYU didn't lose any of its verbally committed players who did not sign back in December. The group of players who signed early was widely considered underwhelming. A more accurate description was that they didn't jump off the page as outstanding recruits. That was not the case with today's group of players. Three-star wide receiver Gunner Romney from Arizona is considered the jewel of the group, but that doesn't do justice to how good the other players.
Tight end Dallin Holker is also a three-star recruit who absolutely dominated the 5A Class in Utah the last two seasons. Defensive back Isaiah Herron is another three-star recruit from the fertile Las Vegas recruiting grounds, where BYU has found players like Kai Nacua in the past. Viliami Tausinga is another three-star recruit who is a beast on the field. As the cousin of recently graduated Kesni Tausinga, he comes from good stock. Amone Finau is another three-star recruit who is a great athlete playing both ways and multiple skill positions on offense.
Defensive back Malik Moore is flying under the radar, much like Brach Davis who signed in December. Alex Miskela is also unheralded, but both Moore and he have been rated top prospects in the talent rich state of California by various outlets.
The final new signee is Danny Jones . Not only does he play the same position as former punter Johnny Linehan, he is cut from similar cloth. Jones comes to BYU from Australia with experience playing Australian Rules football.
Speaking of the 2018 recruiting class, BYU head coach Kalani Sitake said, "I'm looking forward to having each of our new recruits join our family and the great group of young men we already have here at BYU. Today is a great day to celebrate all of our new signees and their families. I've been really impressed with their backgrounds and all of the hard work and sacrifices they have put in to get here. I'm honored to be their coach."
Noticeably missing from the list of signees is Dylan Collie . The son and brother of three former BYU Cougars, Collie has been the focus of attention lately with his decision to leave Hawaii as a graduate transfer. Reports indicated BYU was in a two-horse race with Vanderbilt for his services. Originally, Collie signed with BYU out of high school and redshirted the 2012 season, but following his two-year church mission, he transferred to Hawaii.
The Editor appreciates all feedback. He can be reached via email at bluecougarfootball@gmail.com

