WNC talent on display during National Signing Day
WNC had 26 athletes, including three Division I football players, sign on Wednesday
Post to Facebook
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Join the Conversation
David Thompson , dthompson@citizen-times.com Published 4:50 p.m. ET Feb. 7, 2018 | Updated 6:13 p.m. ET Feb. 7, 2018
Buy Photo
Talon James, of AC Reynolds high school who plans on attending University of Richmond, poses for photos with his football teammates at the signing day ceremony on national signing day Wednesday, February 7, 2018.
 (Photo: Matt Burkhartt/mburkhartt@citize)
CLOSE
Reynolds' Talon James talks about attending University of Richmond Matt Burkhartt/mburkhartt@citizen-times.com
Talon James stood proudly in the center of the Reynolds high school auditorium stage as the Rockets football team surrounded him, offering the senior defensive end hand shakes and hugs after he signed with the University of Richmond.
James, along with 26 other athletes around Western North Carolina, signed with college programs on Wednesday during national signing day.
"I feel very humbled," said James, who was one of three local football players to sign scholarships with a Division I program on signing day. Cherokee senior quarterback Tye Mintz signed with Kennesaw State, while Roberson's Greg Johnston signed with Bryant University in Rhode Island. 
"A lot of hard work has paid off," Johnston said.
Buy Photo
Roberson's Greg Johnston signs to play football at Bryant University February 7, 2018.
 (Photo: Angela Wilhelm/awilhelm@citizen-times.com)
The trio joined Asheville's Andrew Leota as the only local football recruits to sign scholarships to Division I programs. Leota was WNC's only Power 5 commit, signing with Northwestern in December. Murphy quarterback Joey Curry will play football at Western Carolina next season, but will join the team as a preferred walk-on.
Buy Photo
Andrew Leota is congratulated by teammate Trevon Robinson during a ceremony celebrating his signing with Northwestern University to play football at Asheville High School on Tuesday, Dec. 19, 2017.
 (Photo: Angeli Wright/awright@citizen-times.com)
While a few local football players will play out of state in college, most stayed close to home. Mars Hill picked up six local recruits, including Zak Perez and Demetryus Bradley from Cherokee, Brevard's Ethan Shook, Avery County's Stephen Sanchez and Caleb Hicks, and Ty Snelson from Madison.
"A lot of the attention our kids get our from the local colleges who know us and our programs," Pisgah coach Brett Chappell said.
Buy Photo
Returning starters for Pisgah from left: senior Ashton Hill, senior A.J. Cope, junior Tanner Wike, and senior Justin Davis will be leading the Black Bears this season.
 (Photo: Angeli Wright/awright@citizen-times.com)
The Black Bears had one player, lineman Ashton Hill, sign with Brevard College on Wednesday. Joining Hill at Brevard will be McDowell's Ben Ballew.
Swain County's Brodie Bowman and Seth Parker signed with Carson-Newman and will be joined by Owen's Antonio McDowell, who will sign his letter of intent on Friday.
"Not everyone signs today," Reynolds coach Shane Laws said. "We have a few more kids we expect to sign before the year is over."
Cherokee finished the day with the most signed athletes - five - including basketball standout Shelby Wolfe (Gardner-Webb) and football senior Holden Straughn (Lenoir-Rhyne). Rosman's Johnathan Holiday signed with Wingate University and Tuscola's Cameron Parker will join Straughn at Lenoir-Rhyne.
Buy Photo
Cameron Parker receives a hug from his grandmother, Shirley Laws, after signing to play football at Lenoir-Rhyne February 7, 2018.
 (Photo: Angela Wilhelm/awilhelm@citizen-times.com)
Football was not the only sports well-represented on Wednesday as several athletes signed soccer scholarships. 
Reynolds' Grace Sloan will play at UNCA next seasonand Carolina Day's Emily Crawford will play for Western Carolina next season.
"It means so much to me to have all my friends and family here with me," Sloan said. "I'm so excited to join UNCA's program, but I'm going to miss my time at Reynolds."
Erwin's Tim Veselozkiy signed with Montreat College and North Buncombe's Janson Witcher and Roberson's Christian Chavez will play soccer at Newberry College. Reynolds' Pali Smith will play at Lees-McRae.
Read or Share this story: http://www.citizen-times.com/story/sports/high-school/hshuddle/2018/02/07/wnc-talent-display-during-national-signing-day/316890002/
Most Popular

