195
Are particular players targeted?
City have won 22 of their 26 Premier League games this season to open up a 13-point lead over second-placed Manchester United.
But Sterling says some teams have resorted to kicking the league leaders once they go in front.
"Some tackles have been awful," said the 23-year-old. "It's not what I expect in a top-flight match, especially when teams are losing and go out to kick players."
Sterling has been the Manchester City player fouled the most times in the league this season, but the England international ranks eighth for the whole division.
The winger has drawn 44 fouls in 24 appearances in 2017-18, making him the only City player to feature in the league's top 25.
Watford striker Richarlison leads the way after being fouled 77 times so far, with Tottenham's Dele Alli and Swansea's Jordan Ayew among those winning more free-kicks than Sterling.
Do City dish it out themselves?
City players have received 41 yellow cards and two reds, meaning they have collected 1.57 yellow cards per game in the opening 26 matches.
One of the dismissals was for Sterling celebrating with fans after his 97th-minute winner against Bournemouth and the other for Kyle Walker receiving two first-half bookings in the draw with Everton.
However, the stats do suggest City have come in for some rougher treatment - with teams playing against the leaders this season being booked 55 times and receiving three red cards.
West Ham - the most-fouled team in the division - have picked up five more bookings than any other team in the top flight.
City are eighth in that table...
Chelsea have picked up the fewest yellow cards (30), but are joint top of the list when it comes to reds, having received four.
The dismissals of Sterling and Walker also mean only four teams have been shown more red cards than City this term...
They have, however, committed fewer fouls than any other team - 229 fouls in 26 matches, which averages 8.8 per game.
Everton have committed the most fouls - 325 in total, 12.5 per game - while West Ham are 14th in the list, despite being shown the most yellow cards.
Who has conceded the most fouls?
Team

