Sport
Hull City owners pull the plug on Supporters' Committee meeting
The planned meeting was cancelled by vice-chairman Ehab Allam after all parties had sat down at the table to begin
 Share
Click to playTap to play
The video will start in 8Cancel
Play now
Get Daily updates directly to your inbox
+ Subscribe
Thank you for subscribing!
Could not subscribe, try again laterInvalid Email
Hull City 's planned Supporters' Committee meeting with fans has not gone ahead as planned this evening after the owners are claimed to have told the meeting they 'wouldn't operate under veiled threats'
City's owners Assem and Ehab Allam were due to sit down on Wednesday evening at the KCOM Stadium with representatives from the Hull City Supporters Trust, Senior Tigers and the Official Supporters Club for a third such meeting, having previously met in November and December 2017.
Both Assem and Ehab Allam arrived at the meeting this evening, but Ehab Allam promptly ended the proceedings before it could start properly having told the gathering they wouldn't operate under a veiled threat following an article which appeared in Wednesday's Hull Daily Mail.
In the article, HCST chairman Geoff Bielby was quoted saying; “I fear if we don’t see some action from the club then the protests which stopped when the owners agreed to hold these meetings, will begin again and be even bigger than before, such is the anger simmering among supporters."
Read More
Hull City vice chairman Ehab Allam explains Supporters' Committee meeting cancellation
Mr Bielby has spoken to the Mail following the cancellation of the meeting and says the article appears to have angered the owners and was the reasoning behind the meeting being cancelled.
Mr Bielby said: "Ehab and his father arrived and sat down at 6.30pm and as soon as he sat down Ehab said the meeting was cancelled having seen the comments in the Hull Daily Mail article today.
"Ehab said he wouldn't operate under veiled threats of protests. I sought clarity as to whether it was my interview he meant given another story which had been written about Hull City Action for Change and he said he wasn't sure but he'd only just seen it.
Read More
"I pointed out I had given similar comments to Radio Humberside on Monday evening which were everywhere and was not threatening protests, more expressing a concern they would return.
"I questioned how this action would help with that matter and how surely it would escalate things."
Hull City have issued their own statement on the matter.
The Hull Daily Mail has recently launched a free app which features all the latest news, sport and what’s on information. You can download it for iPhone and iPad from Apple's App Store , or get the Android version from Google Play .
Like us on Facebook

