Tyson Campbell
Student Sports
Five-star cornerback Tyson Campbell committed to Georgia on National Signing Day over Alabama and Miami, among others. The No. 3 CB in the 2018 recruiting class out of American Heritage School in Fort Lauderdale is the No. 5 player out of Florida and No. 26 overall incoming player in the country, according to the 247Sports Composite .
The 6’2.5, 180-pound corner held offers from most of the country’s top programs, including Alabama, Ohio State, Georgia, Miami (FL), and Auburn. Campbell’s decision was predicated on whether or not he ultimately wanted to play in front of his family during his college years, or rather get away from South Florida for the next chapter in his life.
He was a teammate at Heritage with Patrick Surtain Jr. , who entered Signing Day as the top-ranked uncommitted player in the country. Surtain’s father coached both of them.
Subscribe to The Crootletter
A frequently published newsletter on news, analysis rumors, and trends in college football recruiting.
Your email address
Subscribe
By signing up, you agree to our Privacy Policy and European users agree to the data transfer policy.
SB Nation’s Miami (FL) site, State of the U, included Campbell as a top target for the Canes .
He sports outstanding speed and length, along with incredible ball skills. Miami has been loading up on DB’s in this class, but is still making Campbell a priority. His status as a national top 25 player, high interest in Miami, and relationship with coach Rumph land him as the #1 player on this board.
After entering high school as a wide receiver, Campbell transitioned over to defense and has found success ever since. His senior campaign includes 34 total tackles (two for loss) and two interceptions.
What makes Campbell special
While he might not be the best defensive back in the class (yet), Campbell is one of the most physically gifted defensive back recruits you will ever see. The combination of length (6’2.5), blazing speed, and athleticism is incredibly rare. He is just beginning to tap into his potential as he receives better coaching. If Campbell can improve the finer points of his game and become more instinctive, he could be walking across the NFL stage as a first-round pick in three years. — Bud Elliott

