Champions League
Hot Spurs
Tottenham 2 Newport 0: Erik Lamela scores first goal in 16 months as Argentinean stars in comfortable FA Cup win
Spurs welcomed back Toby Alderweireld from injury on Mauricio Pochettino's 200th game as manager
By Neil Ashton
7th February 2018, 9:38 pm
Updated: 12th February 2018, 2:19 pm
THE backslapping could have lasted a lifetime.
Mauricio Pochettino’s hug will remain with Newport County manager Michael Flynn forever.
News Group Newspapers Ltd
Erik Lamela celebrates scoring his first goal of the season – and first for 16 months because of injury
The League Two side were magnificent out there.
Newport are out, beaten by this classy, stylish and composed Spurs side in this FA Cup replay.
They had one bite at the cherry before Harry Kane saved them at Rodney Parade.
Spurs, fast becoming the complete team, were not about to give them another go at it.
News Group Newspapers Ltd
The Argentinean latched onto Son’s pass to double Tottenham’s advantage
AP:Associated Press
10
Dan Butler had scored an extremely unfortunate own goal after 26 minutes
They face another test next, heading to back to the muck and bullets of another lower league ground when they face Rochdale.
At Spotland, where the playing surface is covered in sand after a bitter Lancashire winter, these stylish Spurs players will be in for another culture shock.
They are turning into a hardy bunch, finally overcoming Newport in this awkward replay after Dan Butler put through his own net and Erik Lamela scored the second.
Newport, with their travelling fans dreaming of the mother of all upsets at Wembley, can be proud of this performance.
Erik Lamela scores first goal in 16 months during comfortable FA Cup win for Tottenham against Newport County
News Group Newspapers Ltd
Mauricio Pochettino was managing his 200th game as Tottenham boss
AFP or licensors
10
Toby Alderweireld was making his first start since November
They could not match Tottenham – few can at the minute – but this was their night under the lights.
In the end, no matter how much energy Newport could muster, Tottenham were far too good for them.
The insurance policy – Harry Kane, Christian Eriksen and Dele Alli – started this one on the bench.
Tottenham did not need that match-winning combo to ease their way towards their televised tie at Rochdale.
AFP or licensors
Fernando Llorente missed a number of glorious chances to score a rare goal
News Group Newspapers Ltd
10
Newport gaffer Michael Flynn won’t forget this experience anytime soon
Instead some of the lesser lights came out of the shadows to seal Tottenham’s place in the fifth round.
There will be a few complaints from Newport County, justified in the case of Victor Wanyama’s crunching first half challenge.
Newport captain Joss Labadie was the victim, flattened when the Tottenham midfielder clattered into him.
It was a god-awful tackle, instantly worth of a yellow card and maybe even more.
Wanyama walked the tight-rope after that.
Newport were on the hire wire, with this tie delicately balanced after that mesmeric draw down at Rodney Parade.
Getty Images - Getty
10
7,500 Newport fans made the most of their trip to Wembley
Their fans were magnificent, greeting every stray Spurs pass with a raucous cheer as they tried to unsettled the Premier League.
When referee Stuart Attwell gave a decision their way, there was an instant roar of approval.
For a while they believed, growing in confidence every time they tried to get the ball into the feet of Padraig Amond up front.
He was a willing worker up there, tirelessly chasing lost causes and trying to make life uncomfortable for Toby Alderweireld.
In the end, Totteham’s central defender had too much class.
So did Spurs, putting the pressure on this Newport defence in the build up to the opener.
News Group Newspapers Ltd
Dele Alli was introduced in the second half but couldn’t add to the scoreline – hitting the bar after going through on goal
Tottenham star Dele Alli misses great one-on-one chance against Newport County
It was coming, even if it did take a big deflection off the boot of left-back Dan Butler as he tried to drag his foot out of the way.
Moussa Sissoko will claim some form of assist because it was his 26th minute cross that eventually found its way past Newport keeper Joe Day.
It was rotten bad luck, there is no doubt about that.
Michael Flynn, the manager who prepared so meticulously for these two fixtures, can be proud of his players.
Getty Images - Getty
10
David Pipe waves the Newport fans goodbye as they prepare for life back in League Two
So can Newport’s fans, the thousands who travelled up to Wembley to watch these amber shirts in action.
They, too, played their part in these two games.
It is down to Tottenham from here on, especially after Lamela scored their second 34 minutes into the first half.
Heung-Min Son worked the opening, slaloming his way into the penalty area to find Lamela with the outside of his left boot.
most read in football
Guardiola and Cook involved in furious tunnel bust-up after Delph is sent off
HOOPS KAV THEIR MAN
Shamrock Rovers pip Derry City to loan signing of Seán Kavanagh
NO EXCUSES
Gary Shaw admits home truths were told after Shamrock Rovers' derby defeat
REID IT & WEEP
Peter Reid steps in to stop bust-up between Pep Guardiola and Paul Cook
CITY SHAME
Man City's shock defeat descends into chaos as Pep, Aguero and fans clash
NOT DUN YET
Dundalk are still hoping to add to their squad before transfer deadline
SHORTS NOTICE
Arsenal to wear red shorts during Man City Carabao Cup final...and here's why
FAN MADNESS
City fans launch hoardings, seats and bottles at police after Wigan defeat
STOKED
Keith Long praises new Bohemians signing Eoghan Stokes for putting football first
CITY AG-RO
Sergio Aguero in amazing skirmish with fan after Man City crash out of FA Cup
The Argentinian forward did the rest, putting Spurs in control with a classy finish inside the penalty area.
Tottenham’s cushion gave them chance to experiment, with Fernando Llorente, Son and Lamela all liberated in the second half.
They suddenly had more time, more space and more opportunity to express themselves going forward.
When they arrive at Rochdale later this month, they will need all that and more to survive.
Goals of the Weekend: Watch the finest strikes from Saturday, Sunday and Monday's Premier League games
Topics

