10 questions with Pinckney Football’s Nick Cain
 
By: Casey Campbell
1. Why Did you Decide to play football?
First Off, I played it since I was 7 years old. With a lot of sports you will play them for a while and the love you will have for it will kind of die down, but it did not with me. Playing College Football has always been a dream of mine. Especially, if I can help my mom out with paying for it that’s huge.
2. Who is the most famous person you have met?
I would have to say Greg Jones. (Former Michigan State Linebacker). He coached one of my legacy center football teams. He has a Super Bowl ring with the New York Giants. He was an All American linebacker at Michigan State for 3 years.
3. What is your greatest sports memory?
I would have to say when we won the playoff game my junior year. We beat Walled Lake Northern in the last minutes and watching the entire Pinckney Community come down to the field after the first home playoff game ever at Pinckney High School was awesome.
4. What do you think is the most important thing to succeed in the classroom?
With High School, I feel like the most important thing is turning in all of your stuff and staying on top of all your classes. Also, Soaking up the curriculum helps on the SAT test. Another piece of advice I would give is take some AP courses, because that looks really good on college applications.
5. If there is a arena or event that you would like to attend where would it be?
Probably a Michigan State Basketball Game
CC: You’ve never been there?
No, I always wanted to go.
6. Do you think Pinckney has a rivalry?
Yes with Chelsea.
Dexter for the battle for Dexter Pinckney Road.
CC: Any Livingston County Rivals?
Brighton. Then again everyone has a rivalry with Brighton.
7. If you weren’t playing football what sport would you be playing?
Probably Basketball.
8. Favorite Moment with a teammate?
One time after football lifts we went over to Levi Collins’s house. I went with Alex Wasyl, Jack Wurzer, Nolan Houghteling. He has a river in his backyard so we took a bunch of tubes and floated down the river and that was pretty fun.
 

