EDM @ LA -130
 
Gabriel Farnesi takes a look around the NHL and gives his take on the  top injuries  around the league.
Brett Talley and the NHL team breaks down the three game slate, and provides  example lineups .
 
DraftKings: $30,000 Two-Man Advantage: $8 Entry, $5,000 to first. 24.48% win.
DraftKings: $10,000 Sniper 20 Entry Max: $3 Entry, $500 to first.  27.08% win.
FanDuel:  $25,000 Breakaway: $4.44 Entry, $5,000 to first. 
FanDuel:  $2,000 One Timer Single Entry: $1 Entry, $200 to first.
 
Offseason Coverage
 
Nate Miller is joined by co-host Colby Conway to discuss all the latest headlines & happenings around the MLB Hot Stove.
Whether it's a hot or cold start in MLB, fantasy baseball analysts immediately turn to BABIP for explanations. Steve Pimental takes you through, not just the stat, but how to read it, understand its trends and how to use it to your advantage.
Casual fantasy baseball players can get lost in the sea of metrics used in MLB analysis . Howard Bender helps simplify the process as he teaches you what to look for rather than getting lost in calculations.
Chris Bouvier takes a look at setting up the scoring for a fantasy baseball points league and strategies for how to compete and win.
Dan Malin discusses plate discipline in terms of walk and strikeout rates and how you should be looking at the numbers to aid you in your quest for a 2018 fantasy baseball title.
Glen Colton hands you the playbook for success in your fantasy baseball auctions .
Are you properly prepared for your upcoming fantasy baseball draft? If you haven't done a mock draft or two, Colby Conway explains why you may be the laughing stock of your league this season.
For the 2018 MLB Draft Guide, Howard Bender & the Fantasy Alarm team offer you a more expansive look at the key impact MLB players with regard to the 2018 fantasy baseball season.  Scroll down below for more of our 2018 Fantasy Baseball coverage.
 
AT&T Pebble Beach Pro-Am (Pebble Beach, Spyglass Hill, Monterey Peninsula | Pebble Beach, California)
Lock Time: Thursday, February 8, 2017 (11:00am EST)
 
DFS PGA Playbook : Drew Phelps explores every Fairway, reads every Green and uses his DFS Golf experience to uncover top fantasy plays for the upcoming tournament.
DFS PGA Optimal Lineups : Drew Phelps explores every Fairway, reads every Green and uses his DFS Golf experience to put together winning optimal lineups for the Sentry Tournament of Champions.
 
NFL:
Offseason Coverage
2018 NFL Draft: Mock Draft Version 1.0 | Dom Murtha is moving the calendar forward to the upcoming NFL Draft and telling you how he currently sees all 32 first-round picks playing out in 2018.
Fantasy Fallout: Mr. Smith Goes To Washington | Dom Murtha gives his rapid reactions to the Alex Smith trade, the subsequent Alex Smith contract extension, and the definitive end of Kirk Cousins in D.C.
 

