Astori: ‘Juventus better than Napoli’
By Football Italia staff
Davide Astori warns Juventus are “stronger than Napoli”, but Fiorentina can beat them if they play “the perfect match”.
The Bianconeri are one point behind Maurizio Sarri’s side at the top of the league, and can go top, at least temporarily, with a win in Florence on Friday night.
For the Viola’s fans this is one of the biggest games of the season, and the club captain spoke to Gazzetta dello Sport ahead of the match.
“On paper Juventus are clearly stronger than Napoli,” Astori cautioned.
“So there’s not a worse opponent to be facing. That said, we can’t be afraid to face Juventus.
“If they detect that we’re ‘worried’ then that’s it, goodbye. We’re dead. Of course, to get a positive result we have to play the perfect match, but it can be done.
“Gonzalo Higuain is the number one danger, Pipita is ruthless. If you give him even 30 centimetres of space he’ll punish you. His shots are sentences.
“Mario Mandzukic? In the first game he was the one who tipped the balance with his physicality.
“Douglas Costa has dribbling and speed, so we’ll need to do well and double up on their attackers.
“I like [Sami] Khedira and [Miralem] Pjanic is one of the best in the world at free-kicks. Juventus are a winning machine.”
Federico Bernardeschi will return to the Artemio Franchi after his controversial move to Turin, the ultimate betrayal for Viola fans.
“I saw him mature in the two years we had together in the Viola shirt. He has huge margins for growth.
“On this occasion we’ll have to play on his state of mind, Federico will feel this match. He has the shots of a champion, but he’s still a boy.
“At the Franchi he can’t forget that the Viola changed his life.”
At 31, Astori is something of an elder statesman of Italian defending, how does he see the new generation?
“There are some strong ones, but they need to be lucky enough to have a Coach who promotes certain concepts, like [Antonio] Conte did so well at Juventus. I’m talking about defending as a unit.
"[Alessio] Romagnoli is strong, but he’s continually working with different Coaches. [Mattia] Caldarda is working with a unique Coach like [Gian Piero] Gasperini and [Daniele] Rugani is a good prospect but at Juventus you have to win, he can’t focus on his growth.”
See the latest Serie A predictions and betting tips with Eurotips.co.uk

