Home / Football News / Hartlepool call in police to investigate potential financial irregularities | Football
Hartlepool call in police to investigate potential financial irregularities | Football
• Police step in ‘at the request of the club’
• Struggling National League club to pay £48,000 tax bill on Thursday
Hartlepool’s long-suffering fans have helped raise funds but the club are facing a fourth winding-up order in 18 months.
Photograph: Greig Cowie/BPI/Rex/Shutterstock
Hartlepool have become the subject of a police investigation into potential financial irregularities and face a fourth winding-up petition in 18 months.
In a statement the struggling National League club, who are up for sale, said the police had responded “to a request by the club” and no one involved in the current regime is the subject of investigation.
Thanks to donations from supporters, Hartlepool remain confident of avoiding being wound up. “The club has been in contact with HMRC and have confirmed the liability due will be settled in full,” a Hartlepool statement read.
HMRC is believed to have issued a petition giving Hartlepool – owned, reluctantly, by Sage Investments – until Wednesday 21 March to pay £48,000 or risk being wound up at the high court.
While the club denied receiving that petition, they said their liability to HMRC would be settled on Thursday morning using funds raised by fans and well-wishers via the JustGiving website. “This has been made possible by the fantastic fundraising efforts of Hartlepool United and the wider football family,” the statement read.
Relegated from League Two last season following 96 years in the Football League, Hartlepool are seeking a new owner. They suffered a setback when Chris Musgrave, a local businessman, recently withdrew his interest after studying the finances.
The picture is hardly much rosier on the pitch where Craig Harrison’s team are 18th in the National League, four points above of the relegation zone. The players’ wages and the club’s monthly running costs were recently met thanks to the efforts of supporters in answering an appeal to raise around £200,000.
“Police are responding to a request by the club and nobody currently involved [with us] is the subject of any investigation,” the Hartlepool statement added. Meanwhile the board say it is pursuing “various expressions of interest” from assorted parties considering a takeover.
Share this:

