Marshall Football Announces 2018 Recruiting Class
Top-level talent headed to Huntington
Signing Day Central
HUNTINGTON, W.Va. - Marshall coach Doc Holliday has announced the Thundering Herd's 2018 football recruiting class. The group features 24 student-athletes and includes three who are already enrolled at Marshall.
"Once again, we have filled our needs," said Marshall head coach Doc Holliday. "We have recruited young men who are excited to represent this program and, as always, that's where it starts."
In what has become the norm for the program, Marshall has one of its newcomers ranked as a four-star prospect and 11 more as three-stars by ESPN.com, Rivals.com or 247Sports.com - or some combination of the three.
Below are biographical capsules on each Marshall newcomer:
Ethan Bingham
Position, Height, Weight: OL, 6-6, 300
School: Johnson Central High School
Hometown: Paintsville, Ky.
Recruited by: Alex Mirabal
Rated a two-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Helped lead Johnson Central to a 12-3 record and the state finals as a senior after the Golden Eagles won the 4A state title as a junior ... Named first-team all-state by the Associated Press as a senior and all-area by the Daily Independent ... Played in the Battle of the Bluegrass All-Star Game.
 
Position, Height, Weight: TE, 6-3, 240
School: Spring Valley High School
Hometown: Huntington, W.Va.
Recruited by: Todd Goebbel
Rated a two-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Also had an offer from Morehead State ... Also played defensive end and middle linebacker at Spring Valley where he helped lead the Timberwolves to a 12-2 record and state runner-up finish as a junior and an 11-3 mark with another appearance in the state title game as a senior ... Boasts a bench press of 285 and a squat of 365 pounds ... Named first-team all-state by USA Today.
Markeis Colvin
Position, Height, Weight: DB, 6-0, 205
School: Armwood High School
Hometown: Seffner, Fla.
Recruited by: Adam Fuller
Rated a three-star prospect by 247sports.com ... Also had offers from Florida Atlantic, South Florida, UMass, Jacksonville State and South Dakota ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.48 seconds and boasts a bench press of 305 pounds and a vertical leap of 40.2 inches ... Also played wide receiver and returned both kicks and punts at Armwood High School ... Named honorable mention All-Hillsborough County by the Tampa Bay Times.
Jermane Cross
Position, Height, Weight: DL, 6-5, 280
School: J.W. Mitchell High School
Hometown: New Port Richey, Fla.
Recruited by: Adam Fuller
Already enrolled at Marshall ... Out of high school, he ran the 40-yard dash in 4.9 seconds and squatted 415 pounds ... Earned first-team all-conference honors after leading team to an 8-3 record during his senior season when he recorded 54 tackles (26 solo) and 11 sacks to go with five forced fumbles and five pass breakups ... Also played basketball at J.W. Mitchell
Koby Cumberlander
Position, Height, Weight: DL, 6-2, 240
School: Roswell High School
Hometown: Roswell, Ga.
Recruited by: Pepe Pearson
Already enrolled at Marshall ... Rated a three-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Also had offers from Iowa State, Kansas State, Michigan State, Virginia Tech, Appalachian State, Arkansas State, Buffalo, Cincinnati, Coastal Carolina, Colorado State, Georgia State, Kent State, Miami (Ohio), Middle Tennessee, Northern Illinois, South Alabama, Southern Miss, UCF, Western Kentucky, Kennesaw State and Mercer ... Also played running back at Roswell ... Recorded 88 tackles and 16 sacks during his senior campaign.
Zack Ferris
Position, Height, Weight: OL, 6-5, 311
School: Pulaski County High School
Hometown: Somerset, Ky.
Recruited by: Alex Mirabal
Rated a two-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Also had offers from Eastern Michigan, Austin Peay, Eastern Kentucky, Georgetown (Ky.), Morehead State and Murray State ... Four-year starter and all-state honoree who also played nose tackle and defensive end for Pulaski County, racking up 25 tackles (13 solo) ... Earned honorable mention all-state honors as a junior ... Helped lead Pulaski County to a 42-14 record over four seasons ... Played in the Battle of the Bluegrass All-Star Game.
Sharrod Frazier
Position, Height, Weight: LB, 6-0, 190
School: Brunswick High School
Hometown: Brunswick, Ga.
Recruited by: Todd Goebbel
Rated a three-star prospect by Rivals.com, 247sports.com and ESPN.com ... Also had offers from Indiana, Rutgers, Washington State, Appalachian State, Central Michigan, Cincinnati, Colorado State, Georgia Southern, Georgia State, Miami (Ohio), Middle Tennessee, South Alabama, Tulane, UAB and Western Kentucky ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.48 seconds and boasts a bench press of 275 pounds ... Also played strong safety and running back at Brunswick ... Had 90 tackles as a junior, while accumulating 15.5 tackles for loss, 4.5 sacks and two interceptions.
Corey Gammage
Position, Height, Weight: WR, 6-4, 190
School: Atlantic Community High School
Hometown: Delray Beach, Fla.
Recruited by: Mike Treier
Rated a three-star prospect by Rivals.com, 247sports.com and ESPN.com ... Also had offers from Auburn, Florida, Iowa State, Kentucky, Miami, NC State, Rutgers, Syracuse, Virginia Tech, West Virginia and Florida Atlantic ... Also played quarterback at Atlantic Community High School and helped lead the school to the state title game ... Had a 101-yard interception return for touchdown in the Class 8A state semifinal game versus Miami High School as a senior ... Named the Sun Sentinel's Large Schools Offensive Player of the Year for Palm Beach County.
Steven Gilmore, Jr.
Position, Height, Weight: DB, 5-11, 160
School: South Pointe High School
Hometown: Rock Hill, S.C.
Recruited by: Mike Treier
Rated a three-star prospect by Rivals.com, 247sports.com and ESPN.com ... Also had offers from Duke, Georgia, Kansas State, Louisville, Maryland, North Carolina, South Carolina, Connecticut and East Carolina ... Also played wide receiver at South Pointe High School ... Was named the offensive MVP for the North in the Touchstone Energy Bowl after he recorded seven receptions for 83 yards and a touchdown ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.46 seconds ... Helped lead the Stallions to four consecutive state championships and an undefeated 15-0 season ... Also competed for South Pointe's track and field team in the 100 meters, 200 meters, lone jump and 4x100 meter relay.
Artie Henry III
Position, Height, Weight: WR, 6-1, 185
School: San Diego Mesa College
Hometown: Sarasota, Fla.
Recruited by: Todd Goebbel
Rated a three-star prospect by Rivals.com ... Also had offers from Ball State, Bowling Green, Buffalo, Middle Tennessee, Old Dominion, Alabama State, Bethune-Cookman, Jackson State, Liberty, Montana State, Morgan State, Northern Arizona and Tennessee State ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.45 seconds ... Has a shuttle time of 4.09 seconds with a vertical leap of 36.3 inches ... Posted 25 catches for 505 yards and four touchdowns last season at San Diego Mesa College, where he also returned kicks ... Graduated from Booker High School in Sarasota, Fla.
Bakari Jackson
Position, Height, Weight: LB, 6-1, 207
School: Dunbar High School
Hometown: Fort Myers, Fla.
Recruited by: Adam Fuller
Rated a three-star prospect by 247sports.com and ESPN.com ... Also had offers from Colorado State, South Florida and UCF ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.6 seconds and has a shuttle time of 4.35 ... Bench presses 235 pounds and squats 395 ... Also played defensive end and strong safety at Dunbar High School where he helped the football program to a 9-4 record as a senior.
Talik Keaton
Position, Height, Weight: WR, 6-1, 185
School: Booker High School
Hometown: Sarasota, Fla.
Recruited by: Dallas Baker
Rated a three-star prospect by 247sports.com and ESPN ... Also had offers from Indiana, Purdue, Rutgers, Syracuse, Buffalo, Eastern Michigan, Florida Atlantic, Georgia Southern, Georgia State, Middle Tennessee, South Florida, Tulane, Austin Peay and Charleston Southern ... Also played quarterback, defensive back and safety at Booker High School ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds with a shuttle time of 3.93 ... Has a 40-inch vertical with a bench press of 225 pounds ... Competed in the 200 meters high jump, long jump, triple jump, 4x100 relay, 4x400 relay in track and field for Booker.
Patrick Keenan
Position, Height, Weight: DL, 6-6, 210
School: Blake High School
Hometown: Tampa, Fla.
Recruited by: Adam Fuller
Rated a three-star prospect by 247sports.com and ESPN ... Also had offers from Illinois, Iowa State, Maryland, Rutgers, Washington State, Florida Atlantic, Massachusetts, Toledo, Troy, Tulane, USF, Western Kentucky, Jacksonville State ... Also played wide receiver at Blake High School.
Trey Livingood
Position, Height, Weight: OL, 6-3, 300
School: Madison Southern High School
Hometown: Berea, Ky.
Recruited by: Alex Mirabal
Rated a two-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Also had offers from Air Force, Army, Ohio and Eastern Kentucky ... Versatile lineman who played tackle, center and guard for Madison Southern, who finished with an 11-3 record and reached the state championship game during his senior season ... Boasts a bench press of 335 pounds and squats 440 pounds ... Ran for two touchdowns during the 2017 5A state championship game ... Named second-team all-state as a senior.
Dallas Martin
Position, Height, Weight: LB, 6-2, 230
School: City College of San Francisco
Hometown: Pleasanton, Ca.
Recruited by: Adam Fuller
Racked up 112 tackles (31 solo) with a half sack and an interception as a freshman at Santa Barbara City College ... Moved to City College of San Francisco and posted 58 tackles (26 solo) with three more sacks ... Also played tight end at Foothill High School where he helped lead the program to a 12-1 record as a senior.
Arak McDuffie
Position, Height, Weight: DL, 6-5, 240
School: Trinity High School
Hometown: Louisville, Ky.
Recruited by: Mike Treier
Rated a three-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Also had offers from Louisville, Purdue, Syracuse, Cincinnati, Toledo, Western Kentucky, Austin Peay, Eastern Kentucky, Howard, Tennessee-Martin and Villanova ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.72 seconds ... Bench presses 255 pounds, squats 405 and deadlifts 525 ... Second-team Courier Journal all-state selection after posting 31 tackles and nine sacks as a senior, leading the Shamrocks to a Class 6A state championship and a 15-0 record.
Caleb Mcmillan
Position, Height, Weight: WR, 6-3, 195
School: Bishop Moore High School
Hometown: Orlando, Fla.
Recruited by: Dallas Baker
Rated a two-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com .... Also had offers from NC State, Wake Forest, Akron, Central Michigan, Middle Tennessee, Southern Miss, Utah State, Coastal Carolina, Central Arkansas, Liberty, McNeese State and Samford ... Hauled in six touchdowns on 14 catches for 409 yards as a junior ... Also ran the ball seven times for 114 yards and three more scores ... Helped lead Bishop Moore to a 9-3 record as a senior ... Also competed in the 200 meters, 110 hurdles and high jump for Bishop Moore's track and field team.
Owen Porter
Position, Height, Weight: DL, 6-2, 227
School: Spring Valley High School
Hometown: Huntington, W.Va.
Recruited by: J.C. Price
Rated a two-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Also had an offer from West Virginia ... Named first-team all-state by USA Today ... Given the Howley Award by the West Virginia Sports Writers Association (state's top linebacker) ... Also played middle linebacker and running back at Spring Valley where he helped lead the Timberwolves to a 12-2 record and state runner-up finish as a junior and an 11-3 mark with another appearance in the state title game as a senior ... Racked up 135 tackles, including 32 tackles for loss with 13.5 sacks and a forced fumble in 2017.
Justin Rohrwasser
Position, Height, Weight: K, 6-3, 209
School: Erie Community College
Hometown: Clifton Park, N.Y.
Recruited by: Todd Goebbel
Rated a two-star prospect by 247sports.com ... Played two seasons at the University of Rhode Island, where he connected on 15 of 20 field goal attempts and 39 of 40 extra-point attempts ... Set a Rhode Island record for points in a game by a kicker with 14 at Elon (three field goals, five extra points), which led to Colonial Athletic Association Special Teams Player of the Week honors.
Jalynn Sykes
Position, Height, Weight: RB, 5-11, 195
School: Rome High School
Hometown: Rome, Ga.
Recruited by: Pepe Pearson
Rated a three-star prospect by Rivals.com, 247sports.com and ESPN.com ... Also had offers from Arkansas, Boston College, Georgia Tech, Minnesota, Mississippi, Mississippi State, Missouri, Purdue, Rutgers, Tennessee, Virginia Tech, West Virginia, Arkansas State, Colorado State, East Carolina, Georgia State and Memphis ... Helped lead Rome to back-to-back state titles, which included an undefeated 15-0 mark in 2017.
Tyquavious Terrell
Position, Height, Weight: WR, 6-0, 190
School: Lee County High School
Hometown: Leesburg, Ga.
Recruited by: Todd Goebbel
Also had offers from Ball State, Central Michigan, Georgia Southern and Massachusetts ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.39 seconds and has a 100-meter time of 10.8 seconds ... Bench presses 315 pounds and squats 545 ... Named first-team all-state by the Atlanta Journal Constitution and Recruit Georgia ... A first-team all-area selection by the Albany Herald.
Alex Thomson
Position, Height, Weight: QB, 6-5, 225
School: Wagner College
Hometown: Keyport, N.J.
Recruited by: Tim Cramsey
Transfer from Wagner College where he has a 3.55 GPA and will graduate this spring ... Completed 90 of 175 passes in 2015 for 1,085 yards with eight touchdowns and six interceptions and was second on the team with 300 yards rushing ... In 2016, he completed 184 of his 323 passes for 2,436 yards with 16 touchdowns and five interceptions ... He also scored three touchdowns on the ground and caught two passes as well ... Was named third-team All-Shore at punter by the Asbury Park Press following his senior season at Keyport High School where he also played outside linebacker.
Dalton Tucker
Position, Height, Weight: OL, 6-6, 295
School: Bourbon County High School
Hometown: Paris, Ky.
Recruited by: Alex Mirabal
Rated a two-star prospect by Rivals.com and 247sports.com ... Also had offers from Louisville and Eastern Kentucky ... Played tackle and defensive end at Bourbon County ... Boasts a bench press of 295 and a squat of 450 pounds ... Blue-Grey All-American combine participant ... Named honorable mention all-state.
Jaqaun Webb
Position, Height, Weight: WR, 6-2, 179
School: Oxford High School
Hometown: Oxford, Ms.
Recruited by: Dallas Baker
Rated a four-star prospect by ESPN.com ... Also had offers from Alabama, Louisville, Mississippi, Oregon State, Arkansas State, Louisiana, Louisiana-Monroe, Massachusetts, Middle Tennessee, South Alabama, Southern Miss, Tulane and UAB ... Runs the 40-yard dash in 4.4 seconds and the 100 meters in 10.62 seconds ... Bench presses 275 pounds and squats 350 ... Also played free safety and ran track at Oxford High School ... Played in the Mississippi-Alabama All-Star Game.

