Zampa signs county cricket deal
Star spinner set for first county stint this northern summer
Cricket Network
07 February 2018
Australia leg-spinner Adam Zampa has signed for English county Essex for the entirety of their domestic T20 campaign.
Zampa brings a wealth of sprint format experience having played in Australia's Big Bash and the Indian Premier League, while he has featured in 31 one-day and 13 Twenty20 internationals.
The 25-year-old is scheduled to link up with Essex at the beginning of July and will be available for Finals Day should they progress.
Bairstow beaten by Zampa's wrong one
Zampa said: "I've always wanted to play county cricket and I'm looking forward to the opportunity to improve my skills in English conditions."
Essex head coach Anthony McGrath added: "I have been keeping tabs on Adam for a while. He has the ability to spin the ball both ways and that mystery in the middle overs is something that we have been missing from our T20 side.
"We have done our homework and leg-spin makes a real difference in T20 cricket around the world, but you don't want to just bring in any leg-spinner. Adam is one of the best around at the moment and it is another outstanding signing for the club."
Zampa is the second Australian signed to the English county champions after fast bowler Peter Siddle committed to the club earlier this week .
Peter perfect picks up three in the Big Dance
Siddle will be available for the first five games of the 2018 season. 
The 33-year-old, who has had previous spells in England with Lancashire and Nottinghamshire, took 211 Test wickets in 62 appearances for Australia but has not featured for his country since 2016.
"I've enjoyed my previous experiences of county cricket and can't wait to get under way at Chelmsford," Siddle told the Essex website.
"I have heard very good things about the club and the quality of the playing squad and look forward to contributing strongly towards the title defence during the first few weeks of the season."
The opinions expressed here are the views of the writer and do not necessarily reflect the views and opinions of Cricket Australia.
Advertisement

