Champions League
HOME BANKER
Rangers secure banking facility for the first time since Sir David Murray’s reign as Gers chief Stewart Robertson hails major cash boost
Gers haven't had a credit facility since their plunge into liquidation so today's development is welcome news for the Ibrox money men
By Phil Martin
8th February 2018, 7:39 am
Updated: 8th February 2018, 7:40 am
RANGERS have received a cash boost after securing a banking facility for the first time since the club emerged from liquidation.
Gers haven’t had a credit facility since the money problems that plunged the club into financial turmoil.
PA:Press Association
2
Dave King has been in control of Rangers for almost two years
But the Ibrox outfit have now arranged a lending facility which will allow the club greater financial flexibility.
The agreement is with Close Brothers, a merchant banking group. It’s believed the arrangement is worth up to £3million.
Managing director Stewart Robertson said: “It’s another key step towards normalising the business.
“There aren’t many companies with a turnover of more than £30million who don’t have a bank facility.
“Listen, this is not a massive facility in the grand scheme of things.
“But in a funny way this isn’t really about the money, it’s more a vote of confidence in the club.
“We feel we’re getting the club back on the rails and this shows our plans for the future are being viewed positively.
“From that perspective it’s great news.
“We’ve been working with our investor until now and everyone has known the funding requirement.
“That’s been backed and supported – we knew the money was coming.
Keith Campbell - The Sun Glasgow
2
Managing director Stewart Robertson hailed the cash boost
“But now with a banking facility – which most companies our size have got – we also still have those investors behind us.
“It’s another avenue we can utilise for various things.
“The deal we’ve got with the bank is for a modest amount but it is a fair deal and both parties are happy with it.”
Gers have been relying on soft loans from the club’s directors since Dave King won control at an extraordinary general meeting in March 2015.
Chairman King had admitted that the loans were necessary to keep the club running due to the lack of a credit facility.
RELATED STORIES
Hearts star Steven Naismith opens up on Rangers and Kilmarnock 'interest'
BROX STOCK
Vinnie Jones claims Rangers wanted to sign him during the Graeme Souness era
MATCH PREVIEW
Ayr vs Rangers: Live stream, TV channel and team news for Scottish Cup tie
JACK PLOT
Celts ace Hendry recalls rejecting Rangers and Hearts - and his Hoops setback
STAYING PUT
Reports claim Beijing Rehne have cooled their interest on Alfredo Morelos
RIGHT ROUTE
Mark Warburton insists he has no regrets over McKay and Cummings signings
home help
Rae says Dons don't have better squad than Gers.. but do have winning mentality
But in a boost to the Gers board, Close Brothers has now agreed to grant the club access to extra cash.
That is a facility that hasn’t been available since Sir David Murray sold Gers to Craig Whyte for £1 seven years ago.
Shareholders cleared the way for fresh investment in Rangers last November  when they backed moves for a new share issue at the club’s AGM.
Fans’ group Club 1872 are aiming to raise £1m to buy a greater stake in the club at the share issue as they seek to increase their influence within Ibrox.
Ex-star Paul   Gascoigne   receives hero's welcome on his return to Ibrox ahead of Hibs clash
Topics

