Pinterest
The Sports Association of the National Spanish Football Competition, LaLiga de Fútbol Profesional (LaLiga) and the Nigerian Women’s Football League (NWFL), have signed a memorandum of understanding aimed at improving women’s football in Nigeria.
The exclusive agreement which primarily borders around the sustainable development and growth of women’s football in Nigeria, hopes to promote gender equality in sports through the integration of women in football while encouraging access to sports management, education and the development of CSR activities.
Speaking about the agreement, Martian Olivias, LaLiga’s Women’s Football Director said: “In LaLiga, we have a firm commitment to supporting the development of women’s football not only in Spain, but also internationally, as evidenced by agreements just like this one. We understand the growing strength of women football globally and we believe that this partnership will bring great benefits to both parties.”
Also present at the signing which took place in Lagos, Nigeria were LaLiga delegate in Nigeria, Javier del Rio; President of the Nigerian Women’s Football League, Aisha Falode; and Nigerian Women’s Football League board member, Joe Amene.
President of the Nigerian Women’s Football League, Aisha Falode who also spoke on the importance of the agreement said: “This is a very timely and important development for the NWFL and Nigeria women’s football as a whole. A strategic alliance and partnership with LaLiga, recognized as the world’s best league is definitely a good step forward and in the right direction towards the growth and development of the women’s game in Nigeria.
“It’s a new dawn for women football in Nigeria, this is just the beginning of greater things to come for the NWFL as better days are fast approaching. With the long string of success of our women’s national teams in International competitions and their dominating status on the African continent (an achievement that is firmly rooted in the depth, quality and management of nation’s women league), this partnership will help us bridge the gap with the development of the game in the western world,” she added.
Worthy of mention is the fact that the partnership will include the exchange of football knowledge and experience between both bodies, and LaLiga will facilitate the development of television commercials for the women football division in Nigeria.

