Champions League
LU BEAUTY
Former Barcelona boss Luis Enrique favourite to succeed Antonio Conte at Chelsea should Italian get sacked at end of season
Reports claim the 47-year-old is preparing for life in the Premier League, and has already agreed personal terms with the Blues
Gossip
7th February 2018, 8:21 pm
Updated: 12th February 2018, 2:18 pm
LUIS ENRIQUE is reportedly the favourite to replace Antonio Conte as Chelsea boss should the Italian be sacked at the end of the season.
The 47-year-old has been out of a job sine he left Barcelona last summer, but is believed to be keen on managing in the Premier League.
EPA
Former Barcelona boss Luis Enrique could be the next Chelsea manager
Reuters
4
Antonio Conte is under intense pressure at Stamford Bridge following back-to-back defeats
According to the Telegraph , the former Barca and Real Madrid star is the likely man to succeed the ex-Juventus boss at Stamford Bridge.
It appears increasingly likely that the 48-year-old will part ways with the West London club following consecutive heavy defeats against Bournemouth and Watford.
While reports in Spain suggest that Enrique has already agreed terms with Roman Abramovich about taking charge at Chelsea.
The Telegraph also claim that the former Roma manager wants to test himself in England against the likes of Jose Mourinho and Pep Guardiola, and wants to return to management in the summer.
EPA
The 47-year-old is reportedly keen on managing in the Premier League
PA:Press Association
4
The Italian is already facing the sack after less than two years into his reign as Chelsea boss
Enrique has managed in Italy with the Giallorossi, and in Spain with Celta Vigo, before a hugely successful three-season stay with the Catalan club.
Conte’s contract at Stamford Bridge expires in 18 months, and with Chelsea fighting for Champions League football, it appears unlikely his stay will be extended.
MAIN SQUEEZE Chelsea star defender Matt Miazga fined for grabbing opponent’s groin
SunSport revealed recently that Enrique was being lined up in the summer, while Guus Hiddink could be set for a third spell in charge should Conte be sacked in the near future.
Chelsea face West Brom in their next outing, and should they fail to beat Alan Pardew’s men, the former Italian national team manager could be the NINTH boss to lose his job after dropping points against the Baggies.
Simeone, Enrique, Hiddink... who should replace Antonio Conte as Chelsea boss?
Topics

