Read bios on 28 newcomers to Ferris State football program
Posted February 07, 2018 at 04:00 PM | Updated February 07, 2018 at 04:07 PM
Comment
DKMlzxcU8AAafgl.jpg
Ferris State and coach Tony Annese announced their class of 28 newcomers to the football program on National Signing Day on Wednesday.
“We got a late start on recruiting with the success we had last fall and the fact we were still playing in December, but our staff worked incredibly hard and secured another outstanding class," Annese said. "With the success we've had, we have so much to sell at Ferris State and we've been able to find outstanding student-athletes not only locally, but also now on a national level.
"This class has all the tools to be successful both academically and athletically at Ferris State," he added. "They're excited about coming in to compete for championships and we're thrilled they've decided to become Bulldogs."
Ferris State's 2018 class features standouts on both sides of the ball as the Bulldogs inked 10 touted prospects on the defensive side to go with 18 offensively.
Offensively, FSU added six offensive linemen, three wide receivers, four slots, three potential quarterbacks, a tight end and a running back to fit the Bulldogs' high-powered offense, which has ranked among the nation's leaders in total offense, scoring offense and rushing offense throughout Annese's tenure.
On the defensive side, the Bulldogs brought in five in the secondary, four on the defensive line and a linebacker.
Ferris State again placed a heavy emphasis on its home state and grabbed plenty of the top talent in the state of Michigan with 17 coming from within the state along with six from Florida and signees from California, Pennsylvania, Illinois and Ohio.
Below is information on each as supplied by Ferris State:
Giovanni Agazzi
Offensive lineman
6-4, 290, Livonia/Stevenson
Earned all-conference accolades ... Multi-year starter at Livonia Stevenson High School ... Standout performer on the offensive line ... Led team to the state playoffs in prep career ... Coached by Randy Micallef ... Played on both sides of the ball ... Tabbed as one of Michigan's top 25 players in the class of 2018 during his career ... Big and powerful standout in the trenches ... One of the area's top prospects on the offensive line ... Served as a team leader on and off the field.
 
Slot
5-9, 165, Loxahatchee, Fla./Seminole Ridge
Competed both at receiver and defensive back on the prep level ... Four-year varsity member ... Has also competed in track and field ... Named to the Palm Beach 8A-6A Football squad ... Coached by James Parson ... Led team to a state playoff appearance after an 8-2 regular-season record ... Tabbed to the Prep Builders Watch List as one of top prospects in Florida's class of 2018 ... Regarded as a dynamic playmaker with big-play potential.
Jake Baxa
Offensive line
6-5, 270, Aurora, Ill./Marmion Academy
Played on both sides of the ball up front ... Also competed in basketball during prep career ... Garnered all-conference honors for Marmion Academy in Illinois ... Coached by Dan Thorpe ... Competed in the Chicago Catholic League ... Regarded as one of MaxPreps' top offensive line prospects in Illinois ... Multi-year starter ... All-Area choice ... Talented performer ... Highly-regarded prospect ... Honor roll student.
Brendan Bengtsson
Offensive line
6-3, 285, Bradenton, Fla./Braden River
Named to the Blue-Grey All-American Bowl Showcase game ... Three-year starter at center for Florida's Braden River High School ... Helped team compile 2,448 rushing yards and 2,253 passing yards this past fall as anchor of the offensive line ... Led team to second round of the state playoffs ... Also a standout wrestler who earned state runner-up honors in his weight class ... Earned first-team all-area accolades on the offensive line ... Tabbed as one of Florida's top offensive line prospects in this year's class.
 

