Heart South Division Champs Evangel Football Add 25 on Signing Day
Feb 07, 2018
SPRINGFIELD, Mo. – The 2017 Heart South Division Champion Evangel football team added 25 players for the 2018 season Wednesday announced by head coach Chuck Hepola.
Included in the class are an athletic group of Missouri and Texas athletes with nine coming from the Ozarks and seven from the Lone Star state. The Crusader coaching staff also recruited Oklahoma with four athletes coming from the Tulsa area, one from Florida, Kansas, Illinois, Iowa, and Arkansas. Evangel returns 83 players from last year's South Division Championship team that finished 7-4 and 4-1 in conference play.
"Recruiting is the Life-blood of every program and ours is no different.  We have an excellent group of players returning who are pushing themselves in the off-season, but we still had some needs," said second-year head coach Chuck Hepola.
"Due to graduation, there are some holes to fill and our coaching staff did a great job of finding talented athletes to fill these spots. Continuing to recruit the Ozarks is a priority and our signing class is filled with local talent that fit our program and University.  We are also continuing to be successful Nationally in particular Oklahoma, Texas and the Midwest.  There are a lot of excellent football players in these areas."
The Crusaders have scheduled their annual Spring Game for Thursday, April 26 with a time to be determined closer to the game. Game times and dates for the 2018 season including Homecoming, Hall of Fame Game, and Heart Game of the Week TV schedule will be announced at a later date.
Below are biographies of the recruits:
Will Anoa'I // DL // 5-10 // 260 | Kickapoo High School // Springfield, Missouri
Highlights: http://www.hudl.com/v/28B6jG
Named All-USA Ozarks defensive lineman … two-time all-district and all-conference defensive lineman … Earned 2016 Southwest Missouri Coaches Award as defensive lineman .. Finished with 119 tackles and 21 tackles for a loss during his time at Kickapoo
 

