Josh McDaniels is a disgrace for snubbing Colts ... and the latest reason why people hate the Patriots 
McDaniels' shameful Colts snub latest example of The Patriot Way
NEW YORK DAILY NEWS
Wednesday, February 7, 2018, 10:31 AM
Josh McDaniels pulled off a wondrous magic trick Tuesday night by burning 31 bridges simultaneously with a blend of unprofessionalism and immaturity that won’t soon be forgotten.
New England’s offensive coordinator-turned-Colts-head-coach-turned-Patriots offensive coordinator screwed an organization, screwed so-called friends looking for jobs and screwed a welcoming fanbase hoping to believe in him.
Ladies and gentleman, The Patriot Way.
McDaniels’ decision to give a middle finger to the Colts after an agreement to become their next leader is the latest reason why so many people hate The Evil Empire. While the Patriots’ sustainable success should be lauded, these mickey-mouse shenanigans deserve to be carved up like deli meat. It’s a wonder how McDaniels could look his selfish self in the mirror Wednesday.
Josh McDaniels turns down Colts job, will return to Patriots
The pathetic attempts by Patriots apologists to justify McDaniels’ egregious act only shined a brighter light on his disgraceful deed. Foxborough fanboy Willie McGinest actually said these words on television shortly after word trickled out that McDaniels had backed out of his verbal deal with Indy to stay with the Patriots: “I don’t think this stains his reputation.”
Dumber words have never been uttered.
McGinest, a former Robert Kraft employee, double-downed by calling back into the league-owned network a few minutes later to offer more excuses for his pal Josh. The NFL Network “analyst” (INSERT EYE ROLL HERE) spoke of the lure of the Patriots’ stability, while conveniently ignoring key issues like the timing of the decision.
Another analyst went as far as insisting McDaniels felt that he had “unfinished business” to take care of in the wake of New England’s Super Bowl LII loss to the Eagles a few days ago. Unfinished business? UNFINISHED BUSINESS?!
McDaniels has won five Super Bowl rings with the Patriots, including two in the past four seasons. There is no unfinished business, just a bunch of gobble-gook excuse-making for a person who owes everyone an explanation for his shameful about-face.
Josh McDaniels didn't win many allies with his about-face on Tuesday.
(Maddie Meyer/Getty Images)
The apologists were attempting to appeal to the sheep. Don’t be a sheep.
Know this: McDaniels’ supposed desire to remain with an organization with a proven track record of success and stability is understandable. His preference to stay in a comfortable area for his wife and kids makes sense, too.
The timing of McDaniels’ move, however, is indefensible. He strung the Colts along for weeks during the Patriots’ playoff run after both sides had a clear understanding that he would be the next head coach. Heck, Indy just signed three of his hand-picked assistants, leaving those coaches and the organization in a precarious position given the uncertainty now at head coach.
Malcolm Butler emerges as possible Giants, Jets target after post
McDaniels reportedly was lining up the rest of his staff too before Kraft supposedly forked over more loot and perhaps a wink-nod promise to be Bill Belichick’s successor when the Hoodie rides off into the Nantucket sunset one day.
McDaniels back-stabbed so many people from Colts ownership to general manager Chris Ballard, who effectively ended his coaching search once he had an understanding with McDaniels, to the assistant coaches eschewing other opportunities to be on his staff to a fanbase ready to entrust him with the wayward franchise.
“I didn’t want the explanation. Either you’re in or you’re out,” Ballard said Wednesday. “That’s his prerogative and that’s his choice. He chose not to be an Indianapolis Colt.”
Ballard ended his press conference with a clear message to the Evil Empire: “The rivalry is back on.”
McDaniels should be ashamed of himself. Chances that he is? 0.4133 percent.
McDaniels now figures to be the heir apparent to Bill Belichick.
(Steven Senne/AP)
People would have understood several weeks ago if McDaniels passed up his second head-coaching chance (after an embarrassing flameout in Denver) to stay inside the cozy confines of The Evil Empire. There are fair reasons to stick around Foxborough, but McDaniels needed to be decisive at the time.
It’s not as if McDaniels woke up Tuesday morning and suddenly realized that his family loves the Boston area and the Patriots have been a successful and stable organization.
He burned every NFL bridge with these eleventh-hour shenanigans.
What owner in his right mind would ever take a chance now on a guy with a failed head coaching tenure that pulled this amateurish stunt?
Obviously nobody.
McDaniels cannot hide from his antics. He owes everyone an explanation for all this nonsense.
How could he screw over so many people? 
Sign up for BREAKING NEWS Emails

