Riyad Mahrez has 'tarnished his legacy' at Leicester City
Pundits have criticised the absent winger for being 'unprofessional' and 'letting his team-mates down'
 Share
Click to playTap to play
The video will start in 8Cancel
Play now
Get Daily updates directly to your inbox
+ Subscribe
Thank you for subscribing!
Could not subscribe, try again laterInvalid Email
Riyad Mahrez has been accused of “tarnishing his legacy” at Leicester City as his absence continues following a failed move to Manchester City.
Mahrez is set to miss the trip to Man City this weekend, his third successive Premier League game, and has not trained with the squad since Monday, January 29 ahead of the defeat at Everton.
The Algeria winger is unhappy that Leicester rejected Man City’s late approach during the transfer window, despite the Premier League leaders refusing to match the £80million asking price .
Riyad Mahrez lifts the Premier League trophy (Image: Laurence Griffiths/Getty Images)
“It’s a shame, because two years ago, we saw a Leicester team take this league by storm and he was right at the centre of that,” said Brighton defender Liam Rosenoir on Sky Sports’ The Debate show .
“He was outstanding. When you look back at your career, you look back at your legacy, and his legacy now is tarnished. For all the good work he’s done for the football club, this won’t be forgotten and the way that’s he dealt with it. And that’s a real shame.
“He’s got three, four months left of the season. Maximise that. And make sure that you leave Leicester on good terms. Because in 20 years’ time, people will still talk about the time they won the league and his name is tarnished as a player who is refusing to go and train, refusing to go and play.
“When he looks back on this situation in a few years’ time, I think he’ll be disappointed.”
Leicester are willing to be patient with Mahrez, who was said to be feeling depressed in quotes attributed to a ‘close friend’ of the player.
Former City midfielder Dennis Wise, who was also on the show alongside Rosenoir and Arsenal legend Ian Wright, believes that Mahrez is letting the club, his team-mates and himself down.
“I understand his frustration that he wants to go,” said Wise. “Man City haven’t matched what Leicester’s price is, which is entirely up to Leicester.
“Yes, you’re not happy about what’s going on and I’m sure, in time, he will end up leaving, but at the moment, he’s letting himself down, he’s letting his team-mates down and he’s letting the club down at this present time. He needs to get himself back, get on with it and wait until the summer.”
Read More

