Champions League
NAI CONTACT
Hearts ace Steven Naismith says Rangers return was never close as he reveals Rugby Park’s plastic pitch put him off Kilmarnock homecoming
Naisy, who has suffered from knee and ankle injuries in the past, didn't want to play on Killie's artificial surface
By Ryan McDonald
8th February 2018, 7:40 am
Updated: 8th February 2018, 7:41 am
STEVEN NAISMITH has revealed he was never really close to rejoining Rangers.
Naisy had opened the door on a sensational return to Ibrox last month after being told he wasn’t wanted by Norwich City.
Kenny Ramsay - The Sun Glasgow
Steven Naismith has yet to find the net in five games for Hearts
But the move never materialised and he completed a short-term loan switch to Hearts .
On Gers ‘ interest, he told BBC Sportsound : “There wasn’t contact as such in terms of we want you, this or that.
“But with any player, clubs will say, ‘yeah we’re interested. It’s not something we’ll maybe do straight away or this or that, we’ll need to wait and see’.
“And I’d probably put it in that bracket.
Keith Campbell - The Sun Glasgow
Naisy was keen on a return to boyhood heroes Rangers, where he scored 33 goals in 132 games
“But there was nothing that ever came of it.
“It was more when Hearts came in, they drove forward, they were showing their hand saying to Norwich ‘this is what we want to do, this is what we can offer’, wanting to hear back with some deadlines.
BET £10 WITH SUN BETS AND GET A FREE £30 BET
“I had a decision to make. Do I hold out and see what offers I’ll have come the last week of the window?
“And at that moment I thought Hearts was definitely the best opportunity for me and since I’ve been there it’s been fantastic.”
Kilmarnock had also sounded out the Scotland star over a stunning return to Rugby Park.
The 31-year-old started his career at Killie and still has a family home in Ayrshire.
News Group Newspapers Ltd
4
Naismith started his career at Kilmarnock
But in a startling admission, the striker admitted he was put off by the club’s artificial surface.
Naismith has suffered from various knee and ankle injuries in the past.
And he said: “The biggest thing in that was AstroTurf.
“Somebody at my age, having the injuries that I had, it’s something that I never really wanted to consider.
“And as much as I appreciate Kilmarnock so much for what they done for me when I was younger, that would be something that I would never consider.
PA:Press Association
But a return was never on the cards due to the AstroTurf pitch at Rugby Park
“I didn’t really consider too many Scottish clubs.”
Naismith, who left Everton for Norwich two years ago in a £8.5m deal, has always kept in touch with Kilmarnock boss Steve Clarke.
He added: “I’ve spoken to him on and off over the years and certain times over the years.
RELATED STORIES
Rangers secure banking facility for first time since Sir David Murray's reign
MATCH PREVIEW
Ayr vs Rangers: Live stream, TV channel and team news for Scottish Cup tie
BROX STOCK
Vinnie Jones claims Rangers wanted to sign him during the Graeme Souness era
JACK PLOT
Celts ace Hendry recalls rejecting Rangers and Hearts - and his Hoops setback
STAYING PUT
Reports claim Beijing Rehne have cooled their interest on Alfredo Morelos
RIGHT ROUTE
Mark Warburton insists he has no regrets over McKay and Cummings signings
“He’s a guy who has done fantastically well and it was always tongue and cheek saying, ‘oh I’d love to get you back’ and things like that.
“But I had never really seriously considered it solely for AstroTurf. For me, in Scottish football, every club should be in grass.
“People talk about VAR, goal line technology… let’s get grass pitches first and work from there.”
Partick Thistle 0 Rangers 2 - Josh Windass and James Tavernier score as Gers close the gap on Aberdeen to three points

