The classes are full, and the grades are out. Alabama, Ohio State and Texas impressed and earned the only three A-plus marks.
2 Related
National signing day ended with Georgia holding on to lay claim to the No. 1 position in the recruiting class rankings, with Ohio State , Texas , Alabama, Penn State and Clemson not far behind.
Miami was at No. 7 and Auburn jumped up to No. 8 in the afternoon. Oklahoma and Notre Dame rounded out the top 10.
It's the first time that major college football has had two signing periods, thanks to changes to the recruiting calendar. The vast majority of top recruits, including No. 1 overall prospect Justin Fields (Georgia), signed in December, when most FBS schools had put together the bulk of their classes.
Surtain was down to Alabama and LSU but seemingly had the Tigers in the lead for quite some time. Alabama and Miami came on late in his recruitment, and he visited both schools in January.
"Why Alabama? Because of the coach over there," Surtain said of Nick Saban. "They win championships. Over here, we're used to winning, so I want to be a part of that winning culture."
His father, Patrick Surtain Sr., played 11 NFL seasons as a defensive back for the Miami Dolphins and Kansas City Chiefs . The three-time Pro Bowl selection finished his career with 37 interceptions.
The Crimson Tide are losing all five starters in the secondary and have been in search of replacements within the 2018 class. Surtain is the third ESPN 300 defensive back commit for Alabama in this 2018 class, along with junior college top-50 prospect Saivion Smith .
The commitment gives Alabama two five-star commitments, with Surtain joining defensive end Eyabi Anoma .
High school teammates Patrick Surtain Jr. and Tyson Campbell were the top two defensive backs in the ESPN 300 rankings. Surtain selected Alabama, while Campbell will be attending Georgia. 
Douglas Jones/Icon Sportswire
Alabama also got a late pickup with ESPN 300 wide receiver Jaylen Waddle out of Texas. The No. 77-ranked prospect, Waddle chose the Tide over Florida State , Texas A&M , TCU and Oregon .
Georgia coach Kirby Smart bolstered his loaded class with Campbell, who chose the Bulldogs over Alabama and Miami.
In addition to Campbell, the Dawgs have added ESPN 300 prospects Tommy Bush , Quay Walker and Otis Reese to fend off the other programs aiming for the top spot in the team rankings.
Campbell, a 6-foot-3, 181-pound cornerback, gives Georgia three five-star commitments -- joining Fields and defensive end Brenton Cox (No. 11).
"When I went to Georgia, I felt comfortable," Campbell told ESPN on Wednesday. "It was a place that I could see myself playing at. ... I feel like the great coaching staff could help better me to get to that next level. That's why I picked them.
"[Smart] showed me a bunch of love. I just felt he was keeping it real with me from the get-go. It's just up to me to put the work in if I want to get on the field early as a freshman."
Campbell is the No. 2-ranked corner in this class , behind Surtain, and is the 12th commitment for Georgia ranked in the top five at his position. The Bulldogs now have landed four ESPN 300 prospects from the state of Florida.
Georgia continued its success later in the afternoon by landing Bush, an ESPN 300 wide receiver out of Texas. Bush chose the Dawgs over Baylor, Michigan State, Ole Miss and Alabama among others.
The No. 71 prospect overall, Bush is also joined by Walker, an ESPN 300 linebacker who flipped from Alabama earlier in the day, and Reese, who flipped from Michigan.
Four-star WR Tommy Bush signed with Georgia ...
... but not everyone was happy about it. pic.twitter.com/lYweYiIcy2
— ESPN CollegeFootball (@ESPNCFB) February 7, 2018
Ohio State made a splash by landing Nicholas Petit-Frere , the No. 13 recruit who is the top offensive tackle in the Class of 2018.
Petit-Frere had been considering Florida, Alabama, Notre Dame and Michigan. He left everyone in the dark about where he was leaning until he notified coaches of his decision Tuesday.
"I felt like it was the place for me and where my heart wanted me to go," Petit-Frere told ESPN on Wednesday.
The Buckeyes had been looking for an offensive tackle in the class after missing on in-state prospect Jackson Carman , who committed to Clemson. The staff was in on ESPN 300 offensive lineman Rasheed Walker as well, but ultimately Petit-Frere decided to join the class.
The prospect from Tampa, Florida, will join Taron Vincent , who is the No. 1-ranked defensive tackle, as well as No. 1-ranked tight end Jeremy Ruckert and No. 1-ranked center Matthew Jones .
The Buckeyes came into the day ranked No. 2 overall with the second-most ESPN 300 commitments (17), behind only Texas (18). With the prospects on board, Ohio State will now finish with Urban Meyer's 12th top-10 recruiting class since 2006, which would be the most among FBS coaches.
Where They're Headed: Other Top 100 Signings
Here is where the top 100 recruits that had yet to select a program prior to national signing day have committed:
Rank

