Facebook Twitter Google+ LinkedIn Pinterest
Auburn National Signing Day football recruiting capsules
Tigers sign state's top running back in Asa Martin, filling hole left with Kerryon Johnson, Kam Pettway leaving for the NFL.
Post to Facebook
A link has been posted to your Facebook feed.
Join the Conversation
To find out more about Facebook commenting please read the Conversation Guidelines and FAQs
Auburn National Signing Day football recruiting capsules
Matthew Stevens , Montgomery Advertiser Published 2:09 p.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018 | Updated 7:54 p.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018
One of the nation's elite 2018 quarterback prospects, Joey Gatewood (17), verbally committed to Auburn this weekend. Gatewood is in his sophomore season at Bartram Trail High School in Jacksonville, Fla.
(Photo: USA Today File)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
WEDNESDAY'S SIGNEES
Arryn Sippos P, 6-2, 198, Australia (Prokick Australia): The Australian rules football player has been training to be a college punter for a year and is part of a system that has had multiple Ray Guy Award finalists and winners. He'll be the starting punter from day one at Auburn. 
Richard Jibunor, LB, 6-3, 208, Athens (Ga.) Christian: Jibunor is seen as developmental prospect at linebacker but Auburn linebacker coach Travis Williams has liked the film on the 208-pound prospect for several years. 
Matthew Hill, WR, 6-2, 185, Brookwood HS, Snellville, Ga.:  A lot of drama surrounded Hill's recruitment after the longtime Auburn commit decided to not sign during the early period but he is seen as a physical player that could see time as a dominant slot target in the near future. 
Harold Joiner, H-Back, 6-3, 218, Mountain Brook: The player to keep in mind for Joiner is former Tulsa H-back/TE Charles Clay because that's who Auburn coaches told the three-star Mountain Brook prospect he'd be emulating in Chip Lindsey's offense. 
Roger McCreary, CB, 5-11, 178, Williamson HS, Mobile: McCreary is a three-star prospect who Auburn coaches can expect to be a major help to their lack of depth at cornerback early in his career. He's one of the final presigning day commits for Auburn's 2018 class.
Anthony Schwartz, WR, 6-0, 172, American Heritage, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.: Schwartz was timed as the fastest player in the 2018 class and somebody the Auburn coaching staff says can be a deep threat in the passing game this season. Schwartz will also run track and field for Auburn and has eyes on a potential Olympic bid.
Coynis Miller, DT, 6-1, 300, Jackson-Olin HS, Birmingham: Miller created some drama by not signing during the early period but said he was done after a few weeks of visits. Miller is still seen as a defensive tackle prospect that could learn behind Derrick Brown and Dontavius Russell but won't expect to highly contribute for at least two years.
Caleb Johnson, DL, 6-3, 250, Northside HS, Columbus, Ga.: Johnson, who was primarily recruited by Chip Lindsey, is a developmental defensive end prospect who coaches hope can get in the playing time mix after possibly redshirting in the 2018 season. Johnson comes from Columbus, an area Auburn likes to dominate. He could account for early departures of Marlon Davidson and Derrick Brown to the NFL draft. 
Kolbi Fuqua, ATH, 6-1, 210, Cordova HS: The likelihood of Auburn's coaching staff knowing how it'll exactly use Fuqua in his college career isn't high. However, with Auburn having missed out on a pair of of five-star wide receivers, it could be as a slot receiver. Fuqua played on both sides of the ball in high school. 
EARLY SIGNEES
Joey Gatewood, QB, 6-4, 232, Bartam Trail HS, Jacksonville, Fla.: Gatewood represents the future of the quarterback position at Auburn. He’ll be the true dual-threat quarterback that the Malzahn/Lindsey combination has been waiting to coach and develop. In the present, Gatewood will probably redshirt in 2018 but don’t be surprised if he competes for the starting job in 2019.
Michael Harris, LB, 6-2, 215, Tucker (Ga.) HS: Auburn is quickly going to need linebacker depth starting in the 2019 season and this is where Harris can contribute. Linebackers coach Travis Williams continues to bring in quality talent, including this four-star prospect who is projected to be an outside linebacker comparable to Tre’ Williams.
More: Auburn misses on late OT and TE targets; turns focus to 2019 class
Jalil Irvin, OL, 6-3, 300, Stephenson HS, Stone Mountain, Ga.: Irvin will be projected to be mainstay at center under new/old offensive line coach J.B. Grimes. With the losses on Auburn’s offensive line, don’t be surprised if Irvin becomes a player in his true freshman season if injuries occur in the 2018 season.
Shedrick Jackson, WR, 6-1, 185, Hoover: Jackson is the prototypical wide receiver prospect for Auburn because not only does he have the speed and fundamentals of route running down but Hoover coach Josh Niblett will tell anybody that he’s one of the best blocking receiver he’s ever coached.
Josh Marsh, LB, 6-2, 215, Decatur HS: Marsh was seen as a possibility to transition to safety, but Gus Malzahn says he’ll start at linebacker in his college career. Marsh may see some time at special teams early in his tenure at Auburn.
Asa Martin, RB, 6-0, 205, Austin HS, Decatur: Martin is the future at running back at Auburn. With Johnson and Pettway both leaving for the NFL, don’t be surprised if Martin could compete for playing time as a true freshman in 2018.
Zakoby McClain, LB, 6-0, 205, Valdosta (Ga.) HS: At just 205 pounds, McClain is seen as a physical presence immediately at linebacker. Give this Georgia product a couple of seasons with a SEC training staff and McClain could bulk up to look more like a Darrell Williams.
Quindarious Monday, DB, 6-3, 190, Carver HS, Atlanta: Nicknamed "Smoke," Monday is seen as somebody that could compete for backup snaps as a true freshman with the depth concerns that Auburn has in the secondary starting in 2018.
Daquan Newkirk, DL, 6-3, 280, Mississippi Gulf Coast CC, Orlando, Fla.: The clock begins right now with Newkirk as a junior college transfer and the hope is he’ll be an instant impact depth player at defensive tackle.
Kayode Oladele, DE, 6-5, 250, Champagnat Catholic, Miami: Oladele continues the traidition of Nigerian natives coming to Auburn. Oladele’s player host on visits was Prince Tega Wanogho, and coaches hope he can develop into a "buck" linebacker pass rusher.
Jamien Sherwood, DB, 6-2, 200, Jensen Beach (Fla.) HS: A safety prospect that could see immediate playing time because Auburn coaches are impressed with his ball skills and ability to play physical at either safety position.
Shaun Shivers, ATH, 5-7, 175, Chaminade-Madonna Prep, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.: Shivers has track speed and could be an impact player as a kick returner before Auburn gets a chance to figure out where they can use him out of the backfield in a specialized role.
Kameron Stutts, OL, 6-4, 330, Brooks HS, Killen: Stutts is projected as a guard and has all the physical tools to be an interior lineman at Auburn. He’ll benefit for a year or two under the system of J.B. Grimes.
Christian Tutt, DB, 5-11, 195, Thomson (Ga.) HS: Tutt is a developmental prospect at cornerback. Tutt is seen as somebody who could play special teams early while he develops as a cornerback under new position coach Marcus Woodson.
Seth Williams, WR, 6-3, 215, Paul Bryant HS, Cottondale: Williams is seen by many on Auburn’s staff including Kodi Burns as the best wide receiver prospect in the state. For Auburn to steal away a prospect in Alabama’s backyard that is physically ready to play immediately is a big recruiting win.
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

