Champions League
chief hunt
Former St Mirren chairman Stewart Gilmour urges SFA to bring Brian Caldwell in to replace Stewart Regan as chief executive
The Scotland chiefs are searching for a replacement on the board and the dugout and the Shrewsbury Town man is on the list to take over from Regan
Exclusive
By Roger Hannah
5th February 2018, 10:30 pm
STEWART GILMOUR last night urged SFA chiefs to bring Brian Caldwell back to Scotland as their new chief executive.
Shrewsbury Town supremo Caldwell, 49, has emerged as a top candidate since Stewart Regan was axed last Thursday.
PA:Press Association
3
Gilmour called for an overhaul at the SFA after Regan left
SunSport understands the former St Mirren and Ayr United chief fits the criteria set by members of the seven-man selection panel.
And former Buddies chairman Gilmour — a vocal opponent of Regan during his eight-year reign — believes Caldwell would be the perfect man for the job.
He told SunSport: “Brian’s experience is beyond any other candidate who comes to mind. It would be of huge benefit to the SFA to bring in someone who has run a football club or, in Brian’s case, THREE.
“He’d know everything he needs to know to fulfil that role. He has worked from League Two through to the Premiership and now has experience of working in the EFL too.
“I’m sure there will be other candidates, but he would be my man for the job.”
Caldwell entered football administration as a 25-year-old under Bill Barr at Somerset Park and was involved during Ayr’s Hampden visits with Gordon Dalziel.
Keith Campbell - The Sun Glasgow
3
Caldwell is reported to be on the SFA’s list
He was headhunted by St Mirren to preside over the new era when they moved stadia and played a role in their League Cup Final success with Danny Lennon.
He has helped haul Shrewsbury from rock bottom of SkyBet League One to second place in just over a year, having targeted Paul Hurst as their new boss.
It is the kind of CV which Gilmour insists must not be ignored by the Hampden hierarchy as they consider Regan’s replacement. He said: “When we spoke to Brian about the role at St Mirren, he’d actually left day-to-day work at Ayr and was back in one of Bill’s companies as financial controller.
“We had gutted St Mirren and needed someone to come in and rebuild the club.
“We knew straight away he was the best man for the job and didn’t even interview anyone else. I suppose you could say he was headhunted.
“He did a fantastic job, particularly the way he liaised with all parts of the club. He could pull the staff together, pull the fans together and even had an ability to handle the directors and chairman!
“A lot of the job of a chief executive is man management of people, as well as giving the club or business a direction.
PA:Press Association
3
Regan stepped down from his role last week
“Brian made all the employees from top to bottom feel that they were all part of it. He could speak to people in their language.
“We were still at Love Street when he arrived and he played a big part in the move. The construction of the dome at the new stadium was completely his baby.
“His contacts and his ability to attract players were superb, too. Gary Teale would never have been at St Mirren if it wasn’t for Brian, who’d worked with him at Ayr.
“He knew Danny as well and he had full input in everything that would happen at the club.
“He could also counter the board if he felt that we were going down the wrong avenue.
“He is now doing a tremendous job at Shrewsbury.”
Gilmour feels the job specification of SFA chief executive should be changed.
He added: “I met Gordon Smith last week and we had a chat about the role of SFA chief executive.
RELATED STORIES
Graeme Murty has backed Gers legend Walter Smith to be the next Scotland manager
CRAIGY'S VERDICT
Leeann Dempster was difficult to work with at Motherwell says Craig Brown
DAVIE PROVAN
Stewart Regan wasn't a muppet.. he was an SFA puppet
Leeann Dempstar
Lennon says Dempster is perfect for SFA - but he wants her to stay at Hibs
nothing odd
Jamie MacDonald insists speculation about boss Steve Clarke is 'inevitable'
clarke call
Jim Jefferies is worried Scotland will come calling for Steve Clarke
“We have paid chief execs a salary in the region of £300,000 and they are still not allowed to make the big decisions.
“For me, this is the time to widen the role and responsibilities of the chief exec and allow him to make the big decisions.
“We have always had the blazer brigade at Hampden. Now we have a smaller blazer brigade who still don’t want to take their hands off the helm.
“This is a rare opportunity for change, which we have to take.”
Scotland unveil their brand new home kit ahead of the Euro 2020 qualifying campaign

