Tweet on Twitter
The University of Utah mascot Swoop watches on the sideline in an NCAA football game vs. The North Dakota Hawks in Rice Eccles Stadium in Salt Lake City, UT on Wednesday,Aug.30, 2017  (Photo by Jose Remes | Daily Utah Chronicle)
National Signing Day falls on Wednesday, Feb. 7, as the University of Utah football team will be adding some more talent to its roster. This post will be updated throughout the day as the University of Utah football team receives more commits.
Cole Fotheringham, Tight End
Cole Fotheringham is a freshman tight end from San Clemente, California. He is a three-star recruit and has caught a total of 1,244 yards with 100 career receptions and 19 touchdowns. Almost half of his total receptions came on in his senior year with 45 receptions. He had 10 touchdowns and 600 total yards for San Clemente High School. Along with the tight end position, he spent time as a quarterback, throwing 428 total yards and five touchdowns on his high school career.
Andrew Mat’afa, Linebacker
Andrew Mat’afa is a three-star recruit freshman linebacker from San Diego, California. Prior to an injury his senior year, Mat’afa completed a sack, interception, fumble recovery and blocked kick his junior year. He also played the tight end position, completing 29 catches for a total of 315 yards and three touchdowns in 2016. Andrew’s cousin Hercules Mat’afa was named the 2017 Associated Press Defensive Player of the year for Washington State.
RJ Huburt, Wide Receiver
RJ Huburt is a freshman wide receiver from Logandale, Nevada. In 2014, Huburt was named the All-Southern Division 1A Overall Player of the Year and Offensive Player of the Year in 2015. Along with the wide receiver position, he was running back, defensive back, and a kick returner. His senior year consisted of 90 career receptions and 50 touchdowns for a total of 1,747 yards and had five returned touchdowns from kickoffs. As a defensive back, he had a total of 132 tackles and 12 interceptions.
Simi Moala, Defensive Lineman
Simi Moala is a freshman defensive lineman from Hawthorne, California. He previously signed with Oregon State and is a three-star recruit. He has had 117 tackles on his career, with 70 of those tackles from senior year. He has 50 tackles for loss of yardage and 13 sacks. He’s in the top 100 for top defensive ends in the nation at No. 91.
Devin Brumfield, Running Back
Devin Brumfield is a three-star recruit freshman running back from Covington, Louisiana. As a senior, he rushed for a total of 2,307 and had 25 touchdowns. Brumfield helped Covington High School remain undefeated by rushing for 244 yards and three touchdowns. He set Covington HS records for yards, touchdowns and career rushing attempts with 70 touchdowns and rushing for over 6,000 yards.
Tareke Lewis, Defensive Back
Tareke Lewis is a junior defensive back from Palatka, Florida. In his freshman year, he set a team high 16 kick returns for a total of 399 yards. He also had 30 tackles, three interceptions and six breakup passes. As a sophomore, he had 16 tackles, two interceptions and seven breakup passes. He was named National Division Central League cornerback in 2015, and he was the Southern California Football Association National Central Division player of the week twice.
David Fotu, Defensive Lineman
David Fotu is a defensive lineman from Herriman, Utah. According to 247Sports, he was ranked No. 27 overall in the state of Utah. His junior and senior years he racked up a total of 96 tackles, and he averaged 4.5 tackles his senior year. In his two seasons as a tight end, he had eight receptions for 77 yards and one touchdown. His brother, Leki Fotu, also plays for the Utah football team as a defensive tackle.
Paul Maile, Defensive Lineman
Paul Maile is a three-star freshman defensive lineman from Salt Lake City, Utah, and he was ranked the No. 12 best recruit in Utah. He played at East High School where he was both an offensive and defensive lineman. As a senior, he had 92 tackles and nine sacks. As an offensive lineman, he contributed to East’s multiple offensive records in the 2016 season with 7,481 offensive yards, 6,797 rushing yards and 694 points scored.
Jackson Cravens, Defensive Lineman
Jackson Cravens is a three-star recruit freshman defensive lineman from Provo, Utah. With an injury senior year, he had 63 tackles as a sophomore and 160 tackles as a junior. He was named Defensive Player of the Year and Defensive MVP in 2016. His cousins Alex, Jason and Tyler played for the Utes, and he is the nephew of head coach Kyle Whittingham.
Brant Kuithe, Tight End
Brant Kuithe is a three star recruit and freshman tight end from Katy, Texas. His junior season consisted of 2,784 all purpose yards and 28 touchdowns. As a senior, he rushed for 1,041 yards with 18 touchdowns. He started as a punter on the season and punted 22 times for 881 yards. His twin brother Blake is also a Utah signee as a defensive lineman.
Blake Kuithe, Defensive Lineman
Blake Kuithe is a three-star recruit and freshman defensive lineman from Katy, Texas. He has a career total of 184 tackles with 19 of those for loss of yardage and 10 sacks. As a junior, he had a forced fumble, blocked punt, and 94 tackles. He was in the Touchdown Club of Houston Defensive Player of the Year as a finalist, and he was mentioned as an all state honorable in his senior year in Cinco Ranch High School.
Hunter Lotulelei, Offensive Lineman 
Hunter Lotulelei is a freshman offensive lineman from West Valley City, Utah. According to Rivals, he’s a four-star recruit and the sixth best player in the state of Utah. In 2017, he was named the first team all region and second team all USA Utah Football Team. He was a two-time starter and an all-state senior at Highland High School.
Thomas Yassmin, Wide Receiver
Thomas Yassmin is a freshman wide receiver from New South Wales, Australia. He was on the all star team at the Australian Schools Barbarians. He also played rugby for the Scots College.
Quinn Fabrizio, Defensive Back
Quinn Fabrizio is a three-star recruit and freshman defensive back from Sandy, Utah. As a junior, he had 94 tackles and an interception. He only played three games his senior year due to injury. In 2013, he was named second team all state safety his junior year.
Vonte Davis, Defensive Back
Vonte Davis is a sophomore defensive back from Rosenburg, Texas. He played one season for Blinn College and was named the NJCAA All-American. He has three forced and recovered recovered fumbles along with 48 and two interceptions. As a senior at Terry High School, he was the two-time defensive all district player.
Malone Mataele, Defensive Back 
Malone Mataele is a three-star recruit and a freshman defensive back from Placentia, California. As a senior at Santa Margarita High School, he racked up a total of 1,576 all purpose yards, that includes 626 yards on 21 kick returns and 194 yards on 12 punt returns. He has a total of 28 touchdowns in his high school career. Prior to junior and senior year, he played at Orange Lutheran High School where he has forced two fumbles and made 46 tackles.
Terrell Perriman, Wide Receiver
Terrell Perriman is a three-star prospect and a freshman wide receiver from Miami, Florida. In 2017, He completed seven touchdowns on 35 receptions and 671 receiving yards, the third best in the Miami-Dade County. He has 860 total yards and 50 receptions in his high school career. In the third week of his senior season, he was placed in the super 25 by USA Today. Perriman also helped Central High School win the 2015 state championship.
Jeremiah Jordan, Definsive Lineman 
Jeremiah Jordan is a three-star recruit and junior defensive lineman from Stone Mountain, Georgia. He was team captain for Mt. San Jacinto College and played a total of 10 games and 45 tackles. He was also defensive team captain in his senior year at Redan High School. In 2017, he was in the first team SFCA American Division Mountain League.
Bryant Pirtle, Linebacker
Bryant Pirtle is a junior linebacker from Louisville, Kentucky. According to 247Sports, he was the 32nd best in the country among junior college defensive ends. In his junior and senior year, he had a total of 43 sacks and 148 tackles, and rushed for almost 1,000 yards along with 12 touchdowns. Before the state title game in 2014, he had 17.5 sacks and 77 tackles and 5 fumble recoveries. On the offensive side he rushed for 582 with 8 touchdowns.
Braeden E. Daniels, Lineman 
Braeden E. Daniels is a three star offensive lineman recruit from Carrollton, Texas. He’s a freshman and was selected as the first team all district in 2016. Also in 2016, Daniels helped Hebron High School win both Area and Bi-District Championships.
Jack Tuttle, QB
Jack Tuttle is a four star freshman quarterback recruit from San Marcos, California. He is the 4th best pro style quarterback in the country and earned a spot in the Elite 11 Finals in 2017. He’s completed 69% of his passes and threw 41 touchdowns for 3,171 yards. He’s thrown just 4 total interceptions and has rushed for 207 yards. Tuttle lead Mission Hills High School to a 12-1 overall record, with the only loss in the championship game.
g.cefalu@dailyutahchronicle.com

