Marathon's Donavon Free, Marshfield's Quinton Alexander sign with D-II football programs
Tim Johnson , USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin Published 3:28 p.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018
Buy Photo
Marathon senior Donavon Free motions to his teammates and classmates after signing a national letter of intent with the Michigan Tech football program Wednesday morning.
(Photo: Tim Johnson/USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin)Buy Photo
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
MARATHON - Two local prep athletes will continue their football careers at Division II college programs outside of Wisconsin. 
Marathon's Donavon Free and Marshfield's Quinton Alexander signed national letters of intent with Michigan Tech and Winona State University, respectively, during short ceremonies at their high schools Wednesday morning. 
"It shows all of my hard work has paid off, both academically and athletically," Free said. "It's something that I want to keep building on in the future."
RELATED: Free, Marathon too much for Abbotsford in nonconference clash 
Free was an unanimous all-Marawood Conference selection at quarterback and defensive back for Marathon and was recruited by Michigan Tech as a tight end. 
"A lot of schools were talking about him on the defensive side — strong safety or outside linebacker," said Todd Stoffel, who stepped down as Marathon's football coach last month after 16 seasons. "Donny is pretty open to (the position change). He just likes football and he is athletic enough to play at a variety of positions."
Buy Photo
Marshfield senior Quinton Alexander smiles after signing his letter of intent with the Winona State University football team during a ceremony Wednesday at Marshfield High School.
 (Photo: Tim Johnson/USA TODAY NETWORK-Wisconsin)
Alexander was a defensive end for Marshfield and also saw time in the offensive backfield before his senior year ended with a torn ACL in his right knee in the second week of the regular season. 
"It feels really good considering I've worked my whole life to get to this point," said Alexander, who is listed at 6-foot-3 and 225 pounds. "I'm grateful that Winona State gave me the opportunity to continue my athletic career."
Alexander was recruited as a U-back with the Warriors — a hybrid of a fullback/tight end position — and he selected the southern Minnesota school over handful of Division II and III programs in Minnesota and Wisconsin, respectively. 
"(Winona) was the school that stayed with me throughout the entire process," Alexander said. "I started talking with them (last) summer and I went for a game visit the week after my (ACL) surgery. I visited there three times and they have always been there for me even when I got hurt. It's just a great coaching staff and I'm happy to be part (of the program)."
Free received an offer from Cornell in late August and Michigan Tech's interest began in earnest after the prep football season. 
"Coach Stoffel actually sent out my film after football season, so I really owe a lot to him because I hadn't had any contact with (Michigan Tech) before," said Free, who plans to major in mechanical engineering. "I went for a visit in the beginning of December and decided it was the school for me."
Free also drew interest from Northern Michigan as well as the University of Wisconsin-Platteville and UW-Stout. He decided the Houghton, Michigan, campus was the best fit for him in the end. 
"The school was a major part of (decision)," said Free, who rushed and passed for a combined 3.006 yards and 41 touchdowns this season. "It's a really good school for what I want to do (engineering), and it also was a chance to be a part of a really nice (football) program and grow with it."
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

