Football Signing Day: Northern Utahns sign with colleges; BYU, Utah announce classes
Wednesday , February 07, 2018 - 2:49 PM
Standard-Examiner
 
Local high school football players dotted signing lists of schools in Utah and around the area as colleges announced their 2018 class Wednesday on National Signing Day.
Weber State signed defensive linemen Jordan Strate (Davis High School) and Easton Payne (Bear River), as well as Sky View’s Andrew Dean.
BYU re-announced the signing of Weber offensive lineman Tysen Lewis, who signed in the December early signing period.
Utah State finalized the signing of Syracuse lineman Wyatt Bowles, who signed in December.
Southern Utah signed former Roy quarterback Ty Skidmore and Bountiful tight end Garrett Buchanan.
A trio from Northern Utah signed with Idaho State. Syracuse quarterback Ty Metcalfe, Fremont lineman Owen Stewart and Viewmont defensive lineman Jay Wadley all signed to the Pocatello school.
Viewmont running back Cameron Brown signed with NAIA Carroll College in Montana, and his teammate Preston Pitt, a kicker/punter, took a walk-on offer from the University of Utah.
GIRLS SOCCER
Dozens of local girls soccer players also inked Letters of Intent, including six who signed with Weber State.
WSU announced the signings of Fremont trio midfielder Aubrey Van Orden, defender Isabella Morrison and defender Rylee Hunsaker.
Northridge goalkeeper Mekell Moss signed with WSU, as did Roy midfielder Taylor Scadlock, Woods Cross midfielder Olivia Barton and Weber midfielder Trinity Kerr.
Northridge forward Kendell Petersen signed with BYU and Roy’s Hannah Dalebout signed with Sheridan College in Wyoming.
Syracuse, coming off a historic season, will have three players headed to the next level: goalkeeper Gabby Segura (Snow College), midfielder Jessica Jude (Lower Columbia College in Longview, Washington) and defender Abbie Riley (Western Wyoming Community College).
BYU
BYU’s signing class was highlighted by hanging on to the commitment of four-star Arizona receiver Gunner Romney, who signed his letter of intent to play for the Cougars.
The Cougars also added a pair of highly rated quarterbacks in Corner Canyon (Utah) signal-caller Zach Wilson and Texas product Stacy Conner.
The players who signed with BYU on Wednesday are:
Dallin Holker, TE, Lehi, Utah
Danny Jones, P, Essendon, Australia
Isaiah Herron, DB, Las Vegas, Nevada
Alex Miskela, LB, Los Alamitos, California
Gunner Romney, WR, Chandler, Arizona
Viliami Tausinga, LB, Salt Lake City, Utah
Amone Finau, RB, Kearns, Utah
Malik Moore, DB, San Diego, California
UTAH
Utah’s signing class was highlighted by four-star receiver Solomon Enis, the top-rated receiver from Arizona, who signed Wednesday, and highly rated California quarterback Jack Tuttle, who signed in December.
New commitments who signed Wednesday are:
Devin Brumfield, RB, Covington, Louisiana
Jackson Cravens, DL, Provo, Utah
Solomon Enis, WR, Phoenix, Arizona
Cole Fotheringham, TE, San Clemente, California
David Fotu, DL, Herriman, Utah
R.J. Hubert, WR, Logandale, Nevada
Blake Kuithe, DL, Katy, Texas
Brant Kuithe, TE, Katy, Texas
Tareke Lewis, DB, Riverside CC
Hunter Lotulelei, OL, West Valley City, Utah
Paul Maile, DL, Salt Lake City, Utah
Andrew Mata'afa, LB, San Diego, California
Simi Moala, DL, Hawthorne, California
Thomas Yassmin, TE, New South Wales, Australia
Sign up for e-mail news updates.
 

