World Cup 2018
GETTING SHIRTY
England unveil brand new Nike kit for World Cup 2018 – with a classic white home shirt and retro red away one
Even the shirt numbers come with the latest technology in order to help Gareth Southgate's men beat the heat and competition
Pictured
7th February 2018, 3:15 pm
Updated: 12th February 2018, 2:12 pm
ENGLAND have unveiled the new kit they hope to be wearing to World Cup success this summer.
As SunSport revealed yesterday , when the new Nike shirts were leaked online, the traditional white and red colours are remaining along with blue.
Nike
England have unveiled their World Cup 2018 kit - in classic white and red
The home jersey has gone for a classic look, with a white shirt, with red trim blue shorts and white socks.
Meanwhile, the FA and the American sportswear giant have gone for a two-tone red, a colour immortalised by Geoff Hurst and Co in 1966, for the away strip.
And that includes a stylish tonal graphic of the St George's Cross.
According to the official description, "the two-tone stripes evoke speed to reflect the youthful wave of talent that is taking over English football and culture."
Nike
The home kit, modelled by Raheem Sterling, goes for the classic white look with red trim
Nike
Kyle Walker is shown modelling the new two-tone red away kit
That will be worn with white shorts, which includes an England crest, and red socks.
Both tops also feature a rosette on the inside of them, which is reference to the rose on the caps awarded to players for each appearance they make for the country.
Gareth Southgate will lead his squad to Russia in June in the aim of lifting the World Cup for the first time in 52 years.
A host of young stars have the nation's hopes on their shoulders - including the likes of Harry Kane, Raheem Sterling, Dele Alli and Marcus Rashford.
MOST READ IN FOOTBALL
Guardiola and Cook involved in furious tunnel bust-up after Delph is sent off
CITY AG-RO
Sergio Aguero in amazing skirmish with fan after Man City crash out of FA Cup
CITY SHAME
Man City's shock defeat descends into chaos as Pep, Aguero and fans clash
Kylian's club
French giants PSG can now officially call Kylian Mbappe one of their own
Taxi for Alan
Baggies boss Pardew given two games to save his job after 'taxi-gate'
REID IT & WEEP
Peter Reid steps in to stop bust-up between Pep Guardiola and Paul Cook
But despite the relative inexperience within Southgate's camp, Nike says "the need to produce an identifiably English collection was at the heart" of the design.
Pete Hoppins, Nike Football Apparel Senior Design Director, said: "Our goal was to create a range of products that even without an England crest or Nike Swoosh, would still instantly look like an England collection.
"That classic identity, with a modern edge added, is imperative to the whole collection."
Nike
The number of the front of the jersey has been moved from its original centre location
Nike
The digits will now be based under the Nike swoosh
Nike
The number also comes with the latest technology to help give Gareth Southgate's men an extra advantage
Nike
The St George's Cross is included on the back of the neck of the new England shirts
A special custom typeface will also be used for player names with the "quintessentially English fonts" Johnston and Gil Sans both being chosen.
And in an attempt to give our stars an extra advantage, even the numbers that will don the front of the shirts have been given specialist treatment.
Not only have they been moved from the centre to just below the crest, they are "backed by anti-cling nodes because athletes mentioned that previous number applications had caused the shirt to stick to their backs during extreme heat," according to the manufacturers.
Nike
Kyle Walker (left) and John Stones (right) look delighted with the new retro red away kit
Nike
The Three Lions crest will also be included on the shirt number that dons the back of the jersey
The nation, players and Southgate are all hoping to be in Russia for the full seven-week period it will take to emerge triumphant.
And during their time away from the matches they will be decked out in the training gear, which was also revealed today.
From tailored Nike Sportswear Tech Fleece tracksuits to a pure white Anthem Jacket, they will not be found wanting for anything proudly showing off the Three Lions badge.
The last England World Cup kit was released prior to the 2014 tournament.
Marcus Rashford poses in the new England training kit
ENGLAND'S NEW WORLD CUP KIT - THE DETAILS
A rosette on the inside of the shirt
A custom typeface used for player names which draws from quintessentially English fonts such as Gil Sans and Johnston
Player numbers that have been moved from the centre of the shirt to a more breathable zone below the crest and backed by anti-cling nodes
The home kit is a classic look of white shirt with blue shorts, accented by red trimming
A two-tone red (a colour that was immortalised in 1966) grounds the away kit, which is dominated by a tonal graphic that depicts a modern St. George’s Cross
The "match shirts", replicas of those worn by the players, were priced at £90 with the "stadium" alternative available for £60.
England's current home strip has been used for the last two years since it was brought out ahead of Euro 2016.
The Three Lions kick-off the World Cup against Tunisia on June 18 before taking on panama six days later. They conclude the group stage with a clash against Belgium on June 28.
Wembley supporters could get their first glimpse of the shirt in action when Southgate's side take on Italy on March 27.
England Manager Gareth Southgate says there is no club v country row
💰How to win £1MILLION with Sun Six💰
SUN SIX is the new predictor game where you can win £1million - just by correctly picking the results of six games.
Here is how to get your mitts on the million:
Make your picks - predict the scores from these six games
Enter your details - quickly sign up to Sun Bets so we can contact you
Score £1m - Watch the scores roll in and you can win £1m
Top pundits IAN WRIGHT and DANNY HIGGINBOTHAM have made their picks for this week if you need a steer.
And remember, you can claim a free £30 bet with Sun Bets when you sign up put a tenner on this weekend's football here .
 

