Share
8k shares
The kit manufacturers Nike said they wanted to 'tap into the attitude of the nation' with the design and aimed to build the kit based on the identities of the players. 
Nike's Nigeria shirts are part of a collection which features Fast Fit Vapotknit technology to aide the athlete's performance. 
Nigeria's 2018 kit pays homage to the shirt worn at USA 1994 - the west African nation's debut on the World Cup stage. 
The shirts were launched with the help of Premier League trio Wilfied Ndidi, Alex Iwobi and Kelechi Iheanacho as well as ex-Chelsea midfielder Jon Obi Mikel.
Iwobi models the bright green-and-white shirt featuring a feather-like abstract pattern
Shirt pays homage to Nigeria's 1994 kit - the away shirt pictured here worn by Finidi George
'I grew up in England, but Nigeria is my homeland,' Arsenal star Iwobi told Nike's official website. 'When I scored that goal, the players were dancing, the fans were playing trumpets and bringing drums... there was just so much passion and energy.
'It is always an honour to wear the white and green. To compete this summer is not just our dream, it is also the dream of our fans. Together, we all represent Naija.'
The shirt is founded on the concept of 'Naija' - which means future-focused optimism and encourages the new generation of Nigerians to celebrate their country's rich history and culture. 
Leicester striker Kelechi Iheanacho and Arsenal's Iwobi are impressed by their new shirt
Leicester midfielder Wilfried Ndidi will be one of Nigeria's key players at the 2018 World Cup
Nigeria have been drawn into Group D at the 2018 World Cup in Russia alongside Argentina, Croatia and Iceland. 
The Super Eagles have never advanced past the round of 16 at the World Cup having reached the knockout stages three times in their history - in 1994, 1998 and 2014.
Iwobi scored the only goal of the game against Zambia in October as Nigeria became the first African nation to book their place in Russia. 
The Super Eagles are joined by Morocco, Senegal, Tunisia and Egypt in flying the flag for Africa at the 2018 World Cup.  
RELATED ARTICLES

