Vianney has 11 sign, including three football players to Truman State
By Joe Harris | Special to STLhighschoolsports.com
Feb 7, 2018
Vianney's Zach Zerwig (17) goes up for a pass defended by Chaminade at Chaminade College Preparatory School in Creve Coeur, Mo., on Sept. 15, 2017. Michael Gulledge, Special to STLhighschoolsports.com
Michael R. Gulledge
Save
KIRKWOOD • Vianney football coach Paul Day experienced a first during the Golden Griffins’ signing day ceremony on Wednesday morning.
Not only did nine Vianney football players sign national letter of intents to play for their respective universities, but three are headed to the same school — Truman State.
“I’ve never had that,” Day said.
Zach Zerwig, Devin Devres and Jack Borisenko are all headed to Truman.
Zerwig, a wide receiver, had a team-high 52 receptions for 672 yards and five touchdowns as a senior. He recorded 51 catches for 677 yards and three scores as a junior.
Zerwig’s dad was a defensive lineman at Truman.
“Just the whole academics and football together and the family aspect of the football program felt like home to me,” Zerwig said.
Borisenko, a 6-foot-2, 305-pound offensive lineman, also has a family connection to Truman. He will be reunited with his brother, Connor, who also played for Vianney.
“He was my host when I went out there,” Borisenko said. “He showed me around and got me comfortable.”
Devres, a safety, is looking forward to the next level.
“It’s pretty cool because we already have good relationships and we’re looking to form better relationships with everybody on the team,” Devres said. “I think we can bring a family atmosphere to the team.”
Quarterback Tionne Harris signed with Quincy University.
Harris, a four-year starter, passed for 2,283 yards and 27 touchdowns as a senior and rushed for 1,129 yards and six touchdowns. He finished his four-year career with 8,175 passing yards with 78 touchdowns and 4,719 rushing yards with 38 scores.
“There’s no days off really,” Harris said. “I have to keep working hard to get better. There are other people already up there working hard right now, so I have to keep working to make sure I am ready for when I get up there.”
Linebacker Jordan Guilfoy signed with Missouri State; defensive tackle Qadry Taalib signed with Robert Morris in Chicago; kicker Jimmy Lahrman signed with Missouri Valley College where he will also play baseball; offensive lineman Charles Springer signed with Benedictine University; and defensive tackle Tayvian Weary signed with Lindenwood University.
Guilfoy had 76 tackles and six sacks as a senior and 86 tackles and six sacks as a junior. Weary had 10 sacks as a senior and seven as a junior. Taalib had 46 tackles and 10 sacks as a senior and nine sacks as a junior.
Vianney football went 10-2 this season and 19-7 over the past two years, including winning the school’s first state championship in 2016. This group of seniors won 15 of their final 17 games.
“I think the best thing that they’ve been able to do is to change the culture and what the expectations are here,” Day said. “They’ve worked hard and they’re a bunch of great kids that’s for sure.”
Two Vianney soccer players also signed: forward Steven Bibas with SIU Edwardsville and goalkeeper TJ Reigner with Quincy.
Bibas had 13 goals, including 6 game-winners, in leading Vianney to a second place finish in the Class 4 state tournament last fall. He was also named the first All-American from Vianney in 25 years.
“It’s a blessing to receive this award, but I couldn’t do it without my teammates, my coaches, my family and God,” Bibas said. “Obviously this award means a lot to me, but the season we had means more to me.”
Get the STL High School Sports newsletter!
athletes of the week • statistical leaders • the latest headlines • prep sports talk • scoreboard • news organized by school
This field is required.

