College football fans miss the boat on National Signing Day
Posted
NOLA.com | The Times-Picayune
One of my favorite movies is Bruce Lee's "Enter the Dragon."
Early on in the movie, before he goes on to wreck shop at this fighting tournament that is a cover for an opiate ring and avenging the death of a family member, he's working with a student who isn't fully understanding what he's teaching or saying.
"Don't think, feel. It's like a finger pointing away to the moon."
After the student starts to focus on Lee's finger, he smacks the young boy upside the head with a retort.
"Do not concentrate on the finger or you will miss all of the heavenly glory!"
I'm not going to lie to y'all, I was on one this morning on "Dunc & Holder." With snarled traffic due to a stalled vehicle on the Expressway, floats being moved and powering up to see that the world was ending because an 18-year-old decided to play football somewhere other than Baton Rouge got my engine revved up early.
By the time the first hour of the show ended, the Tigers had only pulled in one recruit with the other not announcing his decision until noon, choosing LSU over Auburn. Of the others, one went to Alabama, the other to Clemson and one more to Texas A&M.
Batten down the hatches, and gather all the women and children.
I'm not here to knock signing day, that is a different post entirely. But what I am here to say is that the idea to hinge the futures of entire programs, coaching salaries and notoriety on the backs of 17 and 18-year-olds before they step foot on campus is as foolish as it is frightening.
It's sports, people, which means the unpredictable can happen. Especially in a team game where you have 11 players on both sides of the football.
At the end of that first hour, we talked about how today's college football fan is very ready to lay the burden of their own high ideals for their programs at the feet of the same players who they are very likely to bash publicly, or on websites that love to troll.
Coaching is coaching, but isn't the job also to bring in the guys who they believe can play well and have the tools and wherewithal to develop over the course of multiple seasons?
Happy National Signing Day from the 2004 795th ranked overall, 17th ranked Fullback, & 28th ranked player from Louisiana. It doesn't matter how you come in, it matters how you leave. [?] [?]'s go out the window once the [?]  is kicked off in September. Good luck 2018 recruiting class!
-- Jacob Hester (@JacobHester22) February 7, 2018
This is a day that the players who have put in the work and the parents who sacrifice for them to live this dream should be able to enjoy, with much still left to be done amid the uncertainty of coaching changes and other academic reasons.
Yeah, the other reason they go to college.
See what Jeff, Larry and I had to say on the topic in the video above. 
Have I missed the boat? I'm not sure, but in three or four years you can come back and tell me. 
"Dunc & Holder" airs every weekday from 10 a.m. to noon on Sports 1280 AM, all NOLA.com platforms and the  iHeart Radio app.  You can also catch the show on YouTube Live daily on the  New Orleans Saints on NOLA.com homepage  on YouTube.com. 
View Comments

