NORFOLK
The jewel of Old Dominion’s football recruiting class can certainly keep a secret.
Elijah Davis, a three-star running back from Lynchburg who set several Virginia High School League records last season, committed to the Monarchs more than a week ago but kept his decision under wraps until Wednesday afternoon. He announced it at a ceremony at his school, emailing his signed letter of intent to ODU.
 
About the same time he signed, Virginia Tech texted his high school coach to inquire whether he was still available. The Hokies had just learned that a running back they sought had signed with Florida State .
— ODU Football (@ODUFootball) February 7, 2018
In the realm of recruiting, it was a victory for the Monarchs to hang on to a player the state’s top program made a late push to get.
Davis said it was a case of going where he felt like a priority, rather than a backup plan.
“Old Dominion really wanted me,” he said. “I didn’t want to be the fourth option for (Tech), when I can be the first option for ODU.”
The Monarchs were the first team to offer Davis, who put up video-game-like numbers last season, rushing for 3,603 yards and 59 touchdowns and scoring 372 points – all VHSL season records – for Heritage.
The 5-foot-10, 200-pounder averaged 12.5 yards per carry, said Heritage coach Brad Bradley. He rushed for 401 yards in a Class 3 state semifinal game.
“He only played in the second half of seven games,” Bradley said. “If we had really wanted to pad his stats, he could have had over 4,000 yards.”
Liberty and JMU also offered Davis. Virginia Tech “kept flirting with him, kept flirting with him,” but stopped short of a formal offer, Bradley said.
Bradley received a text from a Tech assistant coach Wednesday morning, he said. By then, Davis had made up his mind.
“Loyalty is a big thing for me,” Davis said. “I felt like ODU really wanted me, not just for the player I am, but for the person I can become.”
ODU coach Bobby Wilder said landing Davis “increased the value of this class tremendously.”
“Elijah is a three-prong back that can run the ball, is a tremendous pass catcher and can block,” Wilder said. “He’s got the physical skill set that he can pick up a blitzing linebacker. Those guys are hard to find.”
With the bulk of its 2018 recruiting class signed in December, Wednesday’s second National Signing Day figured to be relatively low-key for ODU.
The Monarchs began the day by announcing the signing of Jack Hassard, an offensive lineman from Greensboro, N.C., who had committed last month. He became the 18th member of a class that jumped from 12th to 11th in Conference USA after Davis signed, according to 247sports.com .
The Monarchs were rated higher after the December signing period, but with other schools picking up players in the seven weeks since, ODU’s ranking dropped.
Hassard took the spot of three-star lineman Julian Sams of Liberty High in Bealeton, who had been the first member of the class to commit. Sams signed Wednesday with Kent State.
Another player who committed to the Monarchs last summer, three-star receiver Robert Mayo, also did not sign Wednesday. Mayo, from Freedom High in Northern Virginia, apparently remains committed. So does defensive end Anthony Hill of Hyattsville, Md., who also did not sign.
In many cases, schools are being cautious with players who still might have academic work to do to qualify because those players would count against a team’s limit of 25, even if they don’t make the grade academically and can’t enroll.
Wilder said ODU is planning to add more players in the 2018 class.
“We are definitely not done,” he said. “We are still working hard to finish this class, and there are definitely a lot of guys we have interest in.”
Ed Miller, 757-446-2372, ed.miller@pilotonline.com Follow @edmillervp on Twitter.

