Order Reprint of this Story
February 07, 2018 01:03 PM
Former Cal Poly quarterback Bobby Beathard will become the second Mustangs football player to join the Pro Football Hall of Fame, the NFL announced Saturday.
Beathard, 81, served as a personnel administrator for the Washington Redskins and San Diego Chargers, among other teams, during his 33-year career in the NFL and will become the 24th contributor (non-player) enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio on Aug. 4. At Cal Poly from 1956-58, Beathard completed 128 of 273 passes for 1,748 yards and 12 touchdowns with 16 interceptions.
Beathard started as a scout for the Kansas City Chiefs and Atlanta Falcons before becoming the director of player personnel for the Miami Dolphins for its two Super Bowl wins. He then became the Washington Redskins’ general manager in 1978 and helped build a team that won two Super Bowl titles in the 1980s.
In 1990, Beathard was named general manager of the San Diego Chargers. Three years later, the Chargers won their first division title in more than 10 years and two years later played in the Super Bowl for the first time in franchise history. He retired in 2000.
Never miss a local story.
Sign up today for unlimited digital access to our website, apps, the digital newspaper and more.
SUBSCRIBE NOW
“I never looked at it like I was trying to get into the Hall of Fame,” Beathard told ESPN . “I loved doing my job and always had fun doing my job. And as it turned out, we won a lot of games. The only thing I said to my wife when they gave us the news is my worst nightmare is having to give a speech. So if I have to do that, it’ll be the shortest one up there.”
Beathard will join John Madden, a former Mustangs lineman , as the only two Cal Poly graduates in the Hall of Fame. Former linebackers Ray Lewis and Brian Urlacher along with wide receivers Randy Moss and Terrell Owens were also part of the 2018 Hall of Fame class.
C.J. Beathard, his grandson, is currently a quarterback on the San Francisco 49ers roster.
SHARE

