Get Daily updates directly to your inbox
+ Subscribe
Thank you for subscribing!
Could not subscribe, try again laterInvalid Email
Bristol City currently have a 21 players out on loan - the highest number in the Championship - as the Robins build for a bright future at Ashton Gate.
Lee Johnson has given eight Academy graduates debuts since he took charge of the club two years ago and there is a clear pathway from the development squad to the first-team.
The man orchestrating the next wave of Robins talent is club legend and loans manager Brian Tinnion who works alongside U23 head coach Luke Williams.
Brian organises all the loans and keeps track of all the youngsters during their time away. Who better to give an update on the finest young talent at Bristol City.
He spoke about several of the youngsters during his appearance on BBC Radio Bristol earlier this week - here's what he had to say.
Read More
How Bristol City are keeping their top young talent despite interest from Chelsea and Liverpool
Opi Edwards - Solihull Moors
"It has been pleasing to see how well it has worked for Obi this season. He was at Bath City, we called him back and went straight into the first-team to take on Watford in the FA Cup.
"I saw him play at Bath the week before and then next time I saw he was at Watford in front of 30,000 fans. We are hoping there is a few more of them around the corner.
"He has really developed this season. He's always been a great flying machine but at Bath he was having to dodge the physical side and was becoming quicker in the mind.
"He had to get out of the way of some big challenges that's for sure and it has really helped him a lot.
"Obi has now stepped up with Solihull and we really like him."
Read More
Opi Edwards of Bristol City takes on Roberto Pereyra of Watford
Zak Vyner - Plymouth Argyle
"We have put Zak at Plymouth for six months.
"He's been so close to the first team this season and has played five or six games.
"But we think going to play at Plymouth as centre-half will do him good and he had a fantastic result against Blackburn at the weekend.
"We are hoping Zak will come back in pre-season and gain from that experience of playing in League One."
Read More
Zak Vyner (Image: Joe Meredith/JMP)
Lloyd Kelly
"He does need to go out on loan to get the experience.
"It's balancing what the manager needs in his squad as well.
"It's difficult and we've had this conversation about Zak and Lloyd.
"The decision in this window was to send Zak to Plymouth and keep Lloyd around the first-team.
"I am sure in August the conversation will be around getting him some more experience if he's not around the first-team. He has a big future at the club."
Bristol City head coach Lee Johnson consoles Lloyd Kelly after the Aston Villa defeat
Joe Morrell - Cheltenham Town
"Joe has been a revelation with Cheltenham Town.
"In the summer we found it hard for Joe to get a club.
"But to be fair to Gary Johnson he's gone there and done really well. He wasn't starting the first game but a midfielder was ill at the last minute and he got his chance.
"Joe has now played pretty much every minute for Cheltenham since. He has used the opportunity massively.
"I have seen a lot of Joe at Cheltenham and he has been consistently very good.
"We are all very pleased for Joe as it was touch and go if we were going to keep him in the summer.
"He is one of the big, big success stories this season. We're all really delighted for Joe."
Read More
Joe Morrell celebrates scoring for Cheltenham Town
Taylor Moore - Cheltenham Town
"Taylor has already played about 90 per cent of the games for Cheltenham.
"If he can get another 15/16 games in League Two, he will finish with 30 matches for the season.
"That will put him in a better position for the summer.
"He'll get a chance during pre-season to show what he can do."
Read More
Taylor Moore in action for Cheltenham Town
Jake Andrews - Cheltenham Town
"Jake Andrews has gone there with the remit to get into Gary Johnson's side.
"I think Jake with the ability he has, he could be similar to Joe Morrell, and he could be able to cement his place. He has some real quality."
Read More
Jake Andrews
Shawn McCoulsky - Newport County
"Sometimes players have to drop down to be given their chance. Shawn went to Bath and Weston-super-Mare last season.
"This year he's doing extremely well and scoring goals at Newport. He had to go to that level last year and prove he was a goalscorer for someone else to take him.
"He's developing really well. It's not just his goals, but his overall play is improving a lot.
"If there was an issue with Shawn it was his back-to-goal and link-up play but the more I've watched him this season his overall game has improved.
"We could have probably put him into League One when his loan ran out at Newport but we thought he was having so much success, let's leave him there.
"We could do with him starting a few more games but hopefully he can get more goals before heading back to the club."
Read More
Newport County's Shawn McCoulsky scores the winning goal vs Leeds
Max O'Leary - Solihull Moors
"He's been fantastic at Solihull under Mark Yates (Solihull boss) and he has made a big difference to their team.
"Mark has been singing his praises and Max has had four or fives clean sheets in their recent run of good form.
"He saved five penalties at Bath City last season and I think he has a bright future, he's a really good young goalkeeper."
Max O'Leary
Jonny Smith - AFC Flyde
"We paid a small fee for him from Wrexham and sent him to AFC Flyde this season.
"He'll end up with 46 games in the National League this year.
"We sat down, myself, the manager and the coaching staff in the summer and thought the one part of his game he needed to develop was without the ball.
"We had conversations with Dave Challinor at Flyde and he knew what we wanted from Jonny and the improvements we were looking for.
"I've watched Jonny a few times and his work without the ball has been fantastic. He has six goals and they are nearly in the play-offs. He'll come back as a really strong player in the summer."
Read More
Jonny Smith (Image: Paul Knight/JMP)
James Morton - Bath City
"We like James - he's a really good footballer with a great left foot and he can see a pass.
"He's gone to Bath in order to learn the other side of the game, the working without the ball and the toughness.
"I watched him against Concord Rangers a couple of weeks ago and he was absolutely fantastic. His range of passing was superb. James is playing 90 minutes every week and he's improving a lot."
James Morton in action for Bristol City during pre-season
Antoine Semenyo - Bath City
"Antoine is still an under 18 striker. He's playing well there but he's just 18, you look at Shawn who was there last year.
"He's one we really like and Jerry Gill (Bath boss) is doing well with him. He's dipping him in, starting games and bringing him in as a substitute as well."
Read More
George Dowling - Torquay United
"George is doing very well at Torquay and he scored for them at the weekend.
"He's going good and he has had a taste of the first-team which is a big positive for us."
George Dowling, left (Image: Gary Day/JMP)
Harvey Smith (previously Weston-super-mare)
"He is a centre-back in our U18s who we really like. I told Weston that this lad can play at this level and for three months Harvey was excellent.
"We brought him back after three months. We looked at it and he's only 18, yet he's travelling around the country and getting battered by big centre-forwards. We brought him back to give him some time to develop."
Read More

