Marc Iles MarcIles chief football writer
Wanderers have paid their HMRC tax bill and had the case dismissed from court
30 comments
WANDERERS are officially straight with the taxman – and long may it continue.
Deputy registrar Tina Kyriakides dismissed the latest, and hopefully last, winding-up petition from HMRC at a Companies Court hearing in London this morning.
Detail on the size of the debt was scant, although we know part of the reason for the petition being delayed and adjourned for the last few months had been because Ken Anderson successfully haggled down a ‘bond’ which had been requested by the Inland Revenue as security against future payments.
We have also learned the bill was paid in full a few weeks ago, and was not linked with the recent sale of Gary Madine to Cardiff City.
Ever since the true scale of Wanderers ’ financial problems first came to light at the end of 2015, under the previous regime, the club’s loyal fan-base has had to undergo a crash course in accountancy to get to grips with what was happening at their club.
But whether they like it or not, the ordeal has changed it forever.
Phil Parkinson spoke earlier this week about progression, investment in young players, building up the financial base once again. Yet even he admitted the Whites would have to generate cash through player sales, as they have done with Madine, to achieve stability.
Wanderers are no longer bankrolled in such a way that they can ignore big offers, as they had in the past. We will only know at the end of the season what effect the timing of Madine’s sale had on the club’s fortunes. At the very least, funds raised should guarantee there are no further financial problems to act as a distraction.
If Bolton are to progress in the way Parkinson hopes then the first step is to secure Championship survival against the odds; no mean feat, but entirely possible with the kind of gutsy performance we witnessed at the Macron against Bristol City on Friday night.
After that, Anderson has bigger financial challenges to face over the summer.
It would be a brave man to back against the Wanderers chairman and his advisors, who have thus far come up trumps. Some may question his methodology in cutting costs and overheads, yet few can doubt its effectiveness.
The club’s financial accounts – currently being prepared – should make interesting reading and may give an indication of how extensive Anderson’s rebuilding job has been and where Madine’s funds may be needed.
Questions about a potential sale will also be posed, especially if Championship football is guaranteed. But they can be put on hold for now.
Right now fans will settle for not seeing the name of this grand old football club on a court list again. Pack your accountancy textbooks away, it is finally time to concentrate on the football.

