Feb 7, 2018
• 2 min read
Move over, Alabama : There's a new champion on the recruiting trail. And as it so happens it's Kirby Smart, one of Nick Saban's longtime and best assistants, who surpassed college football 's king. 
National Signing Day 2018 is now over, but 247Sports was able to  call the race early  . Georgia has the No. 1 overall class with 323.31 points, about six points ahead of No. 2 Ohio State .  
That marks one of the highest-rated classes in the past decade. With an astounding blue-chip ratio of 84 percent, the Bulldogs have seven five-stars and 15 four-stars, per the 247Sports Composite. Smart and Co. were major winners during the Early Signing Period and have now won the more traditional signing day. 
It didn't come without a lot of work, though. Smart's staff worked hard at flipping multiple blue-chip prospects, including five-star linebacker Quay Walker (No. 31 overall) from Alabama and four-star linebacker Otis Reese (No. 87 overall) from Michigan . Five-star corner Tyson Campbell was once considered a favorite for LSU and Miami. 
None of this is even including the work Smart's staff did in the early period, including making a late run and getting top dual-threat quarterback recruit Justin Fields, the No. 2 overall recruit who was a one-time Penn State commit and Florida lean.
Top signing classes guarantee nothing, but put simply, college football programs can't win national championships without them. After coming up just short in the College Football Playoff National Championship against Alabama in January, Smart is reloading with a group of players that is capable of getting back to the playoff -- and to the championship -- over the next three to four years. 
As for the Buckeyes, they are absolutely one of signing day's big winners. Defensive coordinator Greg Schiano announced that he was staying after reports surfaced connecting him to the same job with the New England Patriots. As such, Ohio State was able to grab five-star offensive lineman Nicholas Petit-Frere, who has a close relationship with Schiano . 
Texas , which finally cleaned up in its own state again, has the No. 3 class with USC and Penn State rounding out the top five. Don't feel sorry for Alabama, though, which still has the No. 6 class and pulled a signing day win by flipping longtime LSU favorite Patrick Surtain Jr. Some of these rankings are still subject to change, but the Bulldogs are unquestionably the No. 1 team in the country on the recruiting trail. 
What big-time recruits are headed to your favorite school?  Visit 247Sports.com to see how your team's future will be changed forever.  Their recruiting analysts are on the ground right now for National Signing Day. Plus, use the code SIGN2018 to get 30 days completely free on any plan they offer!   

