Cowboys sign 25 in 2018 class
Cameron Jourdan, Sports Editor, @Cam_Jourdan
Feb 7, 2018
Oklahoma State signed most of its 2018 class Wednesday. 
Devin L. Wilber/O'Colly
The Oklahoma State football team signed 25 athletes as a part of its 2018 signing class.
Two Cowboys signed Wednesday, and 23 signed on during the early signing period on Dec. 20. 
The Cowboys are the 33rd-ranked class in the country and the fifth-best in the Big 12 behind Texas, Oklahoma, TCU and Baylor, according to 247Sports.
Here is an alphabetical list of the 25 signees.
Amadou Fofana, defensive end
Highland Community College (Highland, Kansas)
6-foot-5, 270 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Fofana comes to OSU out of the junior college ranks, wrapping up his stint at Highland Community College in Kansas with all-conference honors and honorable mention All-America Junior College honors. 
Blake Barron, linebacker
Rockwall High School (Rockwall, Texas)
6-foot, 225 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Blake Barron is said to be a high-motor linebacker. He received an offer on Jan. 28, and he committed two days later. Barron also had offers from Houston and North Texas.
"Barron comes from a really good program," Gundy said. "It has shown signs of liking to hit and being aggressive. He should grow into being a sam backer. Should be agile enough to move around a bit and strike you."
Check out Barron's highlight videos  here .
Braden Cassity, defensive end
Austin Westlake High School (Austin, Texas)
6-foot-3, 245 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite 
Bio: Braden Cassity looks to be another stellar defensive lineman at OSU. He received an offer Oct. 9, and he committed Tuesday. Cassity also had offers from Tulsa, Navy, Army and Toledo, among others.
Check out Cassity's highlight videos  here . 
Bryce Bray, offensive guard
6-foot-5, 309 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: An Oklahoma native, Bray also received interest from OU and unofficially visited the Sooners' campus on April 8, but he ultimately chose to commit to OSU just seven days later. He officially visited OSU Dec. 8. Bray also received offers from Iowa State and Tulsa, among others.
Check out Bray's highlight videos  here.
C.J. Moore, wide receiver
4-star recruit by 247Sports Composite 
2017 season stats: 27 receptions, 526 yards, 13 TD
Bio: C.J. Moore is not going far from home to play college football as a Tulsa product. He committed to OSU on May 1 not only to play football but also to be a long jumper on the track and field team. Moore also held offers from Oklahoma, Alabama, Auburn, Georgia, Miami (FL), Ohio State, Oregon, Ole Miss, TCU, Texas, Texas A&M and Oregon, among others. 
"He will have more of an opportunity to get on the field (as a freshman)," Gundy said. "C.J. is twitchy. Good hands, his body is going to change completely. He hasn't developed his body like he will over the next year."
Check out Moore's highlight videos  here.
Gabe Lemons, athlete 
Coppell High School (Coppell, Texas)
6-foot-2, 175 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Gabe Lemons played multiple positions at Coppell, including wide receiver and cornerback. He received an offer on June 7, and he committed less than a week later. Lemons also had offers from Indiana, Illinois, Princeton and Air Force, among others.
"He is a long, rangy guy," Gundy said. "He has got some length."
Check out Lemons' highlight videos  here . 
Hunter Anthony, offensive tackle
6-foot-7, 320 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Hunter Anthony is one of five offensive linemen to sign with OSU. He received an offer March 2, and he committed the same day. Anthony also had offers from Iowa State, Kansas State and Central Arkansas.
"(Offensive line coach) Josh (Henson) is from Tuttle," Gundy said. "He was able to get on (Anthony) early. We're expecting his body to develop over the next 24 months. He stayed with us all along. A typical kid who is going to be completely different in two years."
Check out Anthony's highlight videos  here . 
Hunter Woodard, offensive tackle
Tuscola High School (Tuscola, Illinois)
6-foot-5, 296 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Hunter Woodard has been committed to OSU since April 18, though he took his official visit Dec. 8, only two days after offensive line coach Josh Henson made an in-home visit. Woodard can play either guard position, but he is able to slide to right tackle. 
Notre Dame, Penn State, Arkansas and Illinois also offered Woodard scholarships. 
Check out Woodard's highlight videos  here .
Jacob Farrell, offensive tackle
6-foot-7, 290 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Jacob Farrell's path to OSU was a different one. Tuttle High School coach Brad Ballard took a picture of Farrell eating a hot dog at a track meet. Ballard was friends with OSU offensive line coach Josh Henson, who started recruiting Farrell after hearing about his great ability. 
Farrell also had offers from Texas Tech, TCU, Kansas and Oklahoma. 
Check out Farrell's highlight videos  here .
Jahmyl Jeter, running back
William J. Brennan High School (San Antonio, Texas)
6-foot, 203 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Jahmyl Jeter committed to OSU on Aug. 2 after flipping his pledge to SMU. He took his official visit Dec. 8, and Gundy and John Wozniak made an in-home visit on Dec. 12.
Aside from SMU, Jeter had offers from Texas A&M, Iowa State, Nevada and North Texas. 
"He is going to be a big back," Gundy said. "I bet Jeter is going to play at 230-ish. He is going to look like (J.D. King) does. There is a role for those guys and what they do. He is kind of just staying out there in the bushes. We really like what we see with him."
Check out Jeter's highlight videos  here . 
Jake Ross, tight end 
Northeastern Oklahoma A&M (Miami)
6-foot-7, 243 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
2017 season stats: Two catches, 23 yards, one TD
Bio: Jake Ross isn't new to the college scene, as he has spent the past two seasons at NEO in Miami, Oklahoma. Ross committed on Sept. 14, and he will spend most of his time as a Cowboy back. Ross had offers from UCF, Kansas and SMU.
"(Ross is) more of an attached tight end," Gundy said. "I think he is going to be flexible enough to move around. We like where he is at."
Jarrick Bernard, safety
Evangel Christian Academy (Shreveport, Louisiana)
6-foot-1, 195 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Jarrick Bernard is another Louisiana product coming to OSU. Bernard took an official visit on Dec. 8, and he had coaches Mike Gundy and Dan Hammerschmidt visit his home on Dec. 12. Bernard has been committed to OSU since June 3. 
"Jarrick comes from Evangel Christian," Gundy said. "They have player after player after player, and they love this kid. They speak highly of him."
Check out Bernard's highlight videos  here .
Jason Taylor II, safety 
Carl Albert High School (Oklahoma City)
6-foot-1, 175 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Jason Taylor II won state championships his junior and senior seasons at Carl Albert, defeating crosstown rival Bishop McGuinness each time. He was named District 5A-2 player of the year. 
Taylor II committed to OSU on Aug. 5. He also had offers from Kansas State, Tulsa and SMU. 
"Very athletic," Gundy said. "Plays both sides of the ball. Comes from a program that is used to winning a lot of games. He is just scratching the surface. He hasn't had a lot of time in the weight room."
Check out Taylor II's highlight videos  here .
JayVeon Cardwell, cornerback
Steele High School (Cibolo, Texas)
5-foot-11, 174 pounds
3 stars by 247Sports Composite
2017 season stats: 41 tackles, two tackles for loss, seven pass break-ups, three interceptions
Bio: Cardwell received first team All-District 27-6A honors in 2016. He committed to OSU on June 26 and officially visited the Cowboys' campus Friday. Cardwell also had offers from Ole Miss, Colorado and Houston, among others.
"Cardwell is extremely talented," Gundy said.
Check out Cardwell's highlight videos  here .
Jonathan Shepherd, wide receiver
Kilgore High School (Kilgore, Texas)
6-foot-4, 196 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite 
Bio: Shepherd committed to OSU on June 8 and officially visited OSU on Friday. He received offers from Texas Tech, Missouri and SMU, among others.
"His dad was a pro baseball player," Gundy said. "Great home life. Values like crazy. He committed early. The family did a great job with instilling, 'Your word is your bond.'"
Check out Shepherd's highlight videos  here .
Kanion Williams, safety
South Oak Cliff High School (Dallas)
6 feet, 170 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Williams committed to OSU on May 19 and made his official visit to Stillwater on Dec. 8. When Williams was a junior in high school, he received first-team all-district honors. He also had offers from Missouri, Houston and Arizona, among others.
"He is a tall, rangy guy that hasn't been in a weight room and developed yet,"  Gundy said.
Check out Williams' highlight videos  here.
Kolby Peel, linebacker
A&M Consolidated High School (College Station, Texas)
6-foot, 209 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: At OSU, Kolby Peel looks to continue his trend as a physical playmaker. He committed May 4 and officially visited OSU this past Friday. Peel also had offers from Minnesota, Cincinnati, Iowa State and Kansas. 
"Peel is really athletic," Gundy said. "May fit that outside backer, potential star guy that we use with his athleticism."
Check out Peel's highlight videos  here .
Michael Scott, defensive end
Trinity Valley Community College (Athens, Texas)
SMU (Dallas)
Nimitz High School (Irving, Texas)
6-foot-5, 240 pounds
3 stars by 247Sports Composite
2017 season stats: 25 tackles, seven tackles for loss, four sacks, one forced fumble
Bio: Although Scott is new to Oklahoma State, he is accustomed to playing football at a collegiate level. Scott signed his letter of intent to play football at SMU in 2015 and enrolled at SMU for the fall 2015 season. Scott, a weak-side defensive end, was redshirted his first season as a Mustang but tallied seven tackles in 2016.
Scott then transferred to Trinity Valley Community College, where he played football in 2017. He committed to OSU on Oct. 26. When Scott was a high school recruit, he also received offers from TCU, Cal, Colorado and Iowa.
Check out Scott's highlight videos  here .
Patrick McKaufman, wide receiver
Northeastern Oklahoma A&M (Miami)
Douglass High School (Oklahoma City)
6-foot-6, 190 pounds
Bio: McKaufman has been enrolled at OSU this semester, and he is redshirting. Although he played quarterback in high school, his long body frame should contribute to the length of the receiving corps on the outside for the Cowboys. 
Samuela Tuihalamaka, defensive tackle
Mater Dei High School (Riverside, California)
6-foot-2, 275 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: As a defensive leader on Mater Dei High School’s 15-0 state championship team as a senior, he is considered one of the top 100 defensive tackles in the national class.
Sean Michael Flanagan, athlete
Charleston High School (Charleston, Arkansas)
6-foot-2, 185 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite 
Bio: Sean Michael Flanagan is the second Cowboy who flipped commitment from Arkansas within the past month. Flanagan switched on Dec. 18 after an official visit to OSU. Flanagan can play on offense or defense. He played receiver and safety at Charleston High School in Arkansas. OSU plans to bring him in on the defensive side. Flanagan also received offers from Memphis, Missouri and Kansas. 
"We were very fortunate,” Gundy said “Flanagan was not easy to get. He is a perfect fit here. He will be here in January. Very talented. Skilled."
Check out Flanagan's highlight videos  here . 
Spencer Sanders, dual-threat quarterback
Ryan High School (Denton, Texas)
6-foot-2, 190 pounds
4-star recruit by 247Sports Composite 
2017 season stats: 226-of-339, 3,621 passing yards, 51 TD, six INT, 140 rushes, 1,220 rushing yards, 14 TD 
Bio: Spencer Sanders was named Gatorade Player of the Year in Texas after a stellar senior season for Ryan, in which he led the Raiders to the state semifinals. Sanders committed to OSU as a junior. He also had offers from Penn State, TCU, Texas A&M, Ohio State, Oklahoma, Oregon, Missouri, Ole Miss and South Carolina, among others. 
"(Spencer) got his letter in first because I got secondhand information,” Gundy said. “I have not talked to him this morning, but he said, 'It's hard to lead when you're in the back.’ "So, I'm all in. I think he is a special player. He has been raised the right way. He is a winner. He has been very loyal from start to finish.”
Gundy said based on Sanders’ high school tape, he is the most complete quarterback he has ever brought to OSU.
Check out Sanders' highlight videos  here.
Tanner McCalister, cornerback
Rockwall-Heath High School (Rockwall, Texas)
5-foot-11, 182 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite 
Bio: A late addition to the 2018 class, Tanner McCalister committed this past Sunday after visiting OSU over the weekend. McCalister originally committed to Arkansas, but he decided to open his recruitment in late November. 
McCalister was a coveted dual-threat player in high school, scoring 15 touchdowns on the offensive end, though OSU plans to have him play on defense. McCalister also received offers from TCU, Texas, Mississippi State and Washington State. 
"He was an interesting take," Gundy said. "The first time I saw him was when I went down (to Texas) in a helicopter. I knew that he played both sides of the ball. He is loyal and committed to his organization, and he loves to play football."
Check out McCalister's highlight videos  here .
Tyler Lacy, defensive end
Sachse High School (Sachse, Texas)
6-foot-4, 238 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: This season, Lacy's defensive prowess contributed to his Sachse High School team's 11-0 regular-season record, but OSU expressed interest in Lacy before his standout senior season. OSU made an offer to Lacy during his junior year, when he was named second-team all-district.
Lacy attended Junior Day at OSU and committed on April 30. Lacy had offers from Texas Tech, SMU, Houston and other schools in his home state as well as several universities outside Texas.
Check out Lacy's highlight videos  here.
Tyrese Williams, center
Cypress Ridge High School (Houston)
6-foot-3, 285 pounds
3-star recruit by 247Sports Composite
Bio: Tyrese Williams has been committed to OSU since May, though he took his official visit Dec. 8. Williams also had offers from Georgia Tech, Cal, Houston and UCF. 
"He is going to be a tremendous center for us," Gundy said. "He has got great feet. We feel good about him." 
Check out Williams' highlight videos  here .

