Photo: Associated Press File Photo / AP
Image 8 of 8
UConn football program adds five players to incoming recruiting class
1 / 8
Back to Gallery
“When you put the tape on, he is a guy that just has some natural ability that you don’t teach,” Edsall said. “When you watch him … you see some of the things he [can] do and the way that he can bend and dip, and he does it full speed and never stops. There’s guys playing in the NFL that can’t do that. … To me, this was steal.”
Three players who previously announced their commitments to UConn on social media followed through by signing Wednesday: defensive backs Jalon Ferrell (Killian High in Miami) and Messiah Turner (Tampa Catholic High School in Florida), and running back Dante Black ( Brookwood School in Snellville, Ga.)
Black ran for 1,927 yards and set a school record with 36 touchdowns as a senior captain. He had 2,295 all-purpose yards.
“When you watch him play on film, you see all those combinations that you like in a running back,” Edsall said. “He’s got really good vision, he’s got ability to make people miss, he’s got a really good burst, he’s got a good jump cut … to me he possesses all the things that you want in a running back.”
Ferrell had 33 tackles, one interception and returned a kickoff for a touchdown as a senior, while Turner had 54 tackles, four interceptions, five forced fumbles and two sacks as a senior. Edsall said Ferrell has the ability to return kicks, so he adds value on special teams.
Turner has lettered for years on his high school basketball team and Edsall has seen him on the court.
“I like being able to get out and watch guys playing other sports, at least going watching guys play live,” Edsall said. “Because I think you can learn a lot and I think you can find out some things. But this guy is a very smooth operator from the standpoint, he moves very, very graciously … he’s a guy that really anticipates things extremely well. You can tell that he’s a leader on the field.”
The overall incoming class is led by nine defensive backs. That gives UConn either 16 or 17 defensive backs on scholarship who are freshmen or sophomores, depending on whether Eddie Hahn is listed as a defensive back or linebacker on the 2018 roster.
Haynes is one of four offensive linemen joining the program. There will also be one quarterback, two running backs, two receivers, four defensive linemen and two linebackers.
Defensive backs Malik Banks and Shamel Lazarus and offensive lineman Noel Ofori-Nyada are enrolled in classes for the spring semester, giving them the opportunity to take part in spring practice.
“I feel really good about this overall class,” Edsall said. “I think our coaches did a tremendous job of evaluating these guys and finding out about them and know what we look for and what we know fits for us, not what maybe other people think fits for us. But we know what fits for us.”
UConn is coming off consecutive 3-9 seasons. This is first full recruiting class for Edsall, who returned to UConn in December 2016.
“There’s going to be opportunities there for them to be able to get on the field this year,” Edsall said. “How they adjust and do all those things, they’ll determine that. But there will be opportunities for them.”
james.fuller@hearstmediact.com; @NHRJimFuller on Twitter

