Vincennes Lincoln's Kotter, Toole sign to play Division I football
Pat Hickey , pat.hickey@courierpress.com Published 3:51 p.m. CT Feb. 7, 2018
Vincennes Lincoln High School seniors Graham Toole (left) and Caden Kotter (right) signed Wednesday to play football at Butler and Air Force, respectively.
(Photo: Pat Hickey)
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
VINCENNES, Ind. – It had been a decade since a Lincoln High School football player signed to play NCAA Division I.
Wednesday afternoon, inside one of the school’s conference rooms, two Alices put pen to paper on National Signing Day. Wide receiver Caden Kotter finalized his commitment to the Air Force Academy while dual-threat quarterback Graham Toole inked with Butler University. They became Lincoln’s first D-I football recruits since Jared Blue signed with Indiana State in 2008.
In the end, there was no secret why Vincennes put together the sort of bounce-back season it had. The Alices (9-2) won five more games than the season before and featured D-I athletes on both sides of the ball.
“It was kind of like a movie,” said Toole, who also played strong safety. “Coming out and beating Jasper, that’s always a good feeling. Winning the (Big Eight) conference. It’s just something you don’t see every year with a first-year coach (Levi Salters).”
This quarterback to wide receiver duo was dynamic.
Toole completed 94 of 173 passes for 1,976 yards with 20 touchdowns against six interceptions. He also rushed for 1,022 yards on 153 carries with 26 TDs. The 5-foot-9 senior was a unanimous Big Eight selection and named all-state by The Associated Press and Indiana Football Coaches Association.
“He’s just an athlete,” Kotter said.
Vincennes Lincoln senior Graham Toole combined to pass and rush for 3,000 yards this past season.
 (Photo: Rene LaMontagna)
Toole said he was recruited by Butler as a slotback.
“Kind of a running back who motions out of the backfield into the slot,” said Toole, who also had an opportunity to walk on at Murray State. “They also mentioned a little bit of quarterback because they actually have a running back who is now playing quarterback for them and ran a little option this past year that worked pretty well.”
MORE:  Toole running the show at quarterback for the Alices
Toole was a running back who converted to behind center under Salters, who wanted the ball in the hands of his best play-maker.
“A lot of people kind of forgot about Graham because he tore his ACL in Week 2 his junior year,” Salters said. “A lot of teams we played hadn’t really seen him. We knew he was our best play-maker and he ended up throwing the ball better than we expected. I’m sure Caden probably made it pretty easy for him, too.”
Vincennes Lincoln senior Caden Kotter caught 37 passes for 858 yards last season.
 (Photo: Submitted / Facebook)
Kotter was his primary target who hauled in 37 receptions for 858 yards and nine scores. He averaged 23 yards per catch and carried the ball four times for 69 yards with a TD. Kotter was also a unanimous Big Eight selection and IFCA all-state.
The 6-5 senior stands out for his size and athleticism. He also held an offer from Army and is required to serve a minimum of five years in the Air Force upon graduation.
“Any time you have a 6-5 wide receiver who can jump out of the gym, it really puts your mind at ease knowing you can just throw it up and he’s going to go get it,” Toole said. “He can outrun basically anyone in the state of Indiana. Throw it far enough and I was sure he was going to track it down.”
Kotter and Toole manned both safety positions on defense and combined for six interceptions and two forced fumbles.
Air Force is a Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) program that competes in the Mountain West Conference. The Falcons went 5-7 last season, but have played in bowl games in nine of the 11 seasons under head coach Troy Calhoun.
Butler is a Football Championship Subdivision (FCS) program that competes in the Pioneer Football League. Last season, the Bulldogs finished 6-5 under 12th-year head coach Jeff Voris.
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

