73' Change Out Sarabia in Miguel Layún
79' Change Out Luis Muriel in Sandro
83' Change Out Banega in Guido Pizarro
88' Goal Franco Vázquez
57' Change Out Eraso in Brasanac
72' Change Out Amrabat in Raúl García
83' Change Out Tito in Mantovani
Sevilla 2-0 Leganés (3-1) Copa del Rey semi-final: goals, report
Aitor Alcalde
Getty Images
Joaquín Correa and Franco Vázquez scored at the Sánchez Pizjuán to set up a cup final clash with Barcelona or Valencia.
Update:  7 February 2018 23:44h CET
Sevilla maintained their reputation as a remarkable cup team by seeing off Leganés at the Sánchez Pizjuán to set up a 17th final since 2006. 
Joaquín Correa stabbed the ball in to an unguarded net after 15 minutes to open the scoring, following tenacious work by the excellent Luis Muriel.
Leganés pushed forward in the second half but suffered from questionable decision making and a lack of quality when they penetrated the Sevilla area. The home side punished them in the closing stages. Substitute Sandro Ramírez set up Franco Vázquez on the counter-attack. The Argentine forward surged past Dimitris Siovas and arrowed the ball in to the top corner. 
Los Pepineros are eliminated from the competition they have brightened with their presence. Sevilla will play Barcelona or Valencia in the final. Whatever happens on April 21st, it will be hard to prevent the 2017-18 Copa del Rey remaining in memories as the year Leganés entertained, delighted, but fell short. 
Sevilla 2-0 Leganés (3-1): as it happened
'With our heads held high'. 
Goals from Joaquín Correa and Franco Vázquez seal Sevilla's passage to a second Copa del Rey final in three years. They'll face Barcelona or Valencia. 
90'+3' FT. 
90'+2'   Bustinza is down on the floor with blood pouring from behind his ear. He clashed with Mercado and looks groggy as he is patched up on the touchline. 
90' GOOOOOOOOOL! Sevilla are going to the cup final! Franco Vázquez scores! The home side burst forward on the counter-attack, with Sandro and Vázquez up against two defenders. Vázquez powers round the outside of Siovas and mullers the ball in to the top corner. A great finish and the Sánchez Pizjuán is bouncing. 
87'   Diego Rico ignores the three players in the box, shoots, and slices the ball behind. Life is made up of good and bad decisions. That was a bad one. 
85'   N'Zonzi draws a sharp grunt from the crowd as he stoops to nod a corner in to the side-netting. 'Half the ground thought it was in'. 
84' Garitano also makes a final change, bringing on Mantovani for Tito. 
84' Guido Pizarro takes Banega's place. 
81'   Ever Banega feels something go in his leg and toe pokes the ball out of play. Montella hurriedly prepares a replacement as the physio spins his hands to indicate that Banega's game is up. 
80' Luis Muriel receives a generous round of applause as he slopes off the pitch. Sandro Ramírez take his place in attack. 
78'   Sevilla continue to come forward in numbers. But once they arrive in the final third they become sloppy. The goal that would seal the tie has proved elusive. 
77'   Muriel receives the ball on the half-turn and fires well over from 30 yards. 
75'   Jesús Navas cuts a lovely, first-time ball across the six-yard box. There are no white shirts on hand to apply the finishing touch. 
74' Sevilla sub: Layún makes his home debut, coming on in the place of Sarabia. 
73' Leganés sub: Raúl García replaces Amrabat. 
70'   Luis Muriel has been absolutely fantastic. Awareness, pace, power, and desire. The Colombia international gallops forward with the ball and lays it wide to Correa. He backheels it to the overlapping Escudero, who sees his cross cannon back on to his own thigh and behind for a goal kick. 
67'   A barrage of whistles tumbles down from the stands as Leganés commit another foul. Banega is the recipient. He sits on the ground and signals for his team-mates to calm down, before getting up and overhitting the free-kick behind for a goal kick. 
66'   Sarabia drifts inside and lets the ball run across his body before unleashing a fierce shot. Champagne parries it behind for a corner, which Bustinza punts out for a throw-in. 
64'   Sevilla are looking dangerous on the counter-attack. Muriel bursts through the middle and threads the ball out to Escudero, who has made a lung-busting run from left-back. Bustinza just about nips in to clear the danger. 
61'   Ever Banega punishes Leganes for committing too many players forward with an over-the-top ball to Muriel, who is through on goal with half the pitch ahead of him. Siovas recovers as Muriel struggles to get the bouncing ball under control. It looks like the Greek defender hauls Muriel over on the edge of the box. The referee gives nothing. If he had given a foul, he'd have had no choice but to show a red card, too. 
59' Asier Garitano makes his first change, bringing on Darko Brasanac in the place of Eraso. 
58'   OOOH! Rubén Pérez fizzes a shot just wide of the post from 35 yards. That had Sergio Rico scrambling. 
55'   The second half has started in scrappy fashion. Flashes of possession are being swiftly ended by niggly challenges. 
53'   Correa concedes a free-kick this time. Eraso delivers a cross from the right, Gabriel goes in firmly on Mercado, and the referee toots his whistle for a free-kick. 
50' Amrabat is the first player in to the book. He let the ball run away from him, Navas nipped in, and Amrabat followed through on Navas. A fair decision from the referee. 
49'   It is Beauvue who takes. He shapes the ball nicely towards the near post. It fizzes just over. 
47'   Leganés have a free-kick right on the edge of the box. Franco Vázquez challenges Rubén Pérez with his foot high and his studs showing. Beauvue places the ball with a cluster of green shirts stood around the ball. 
46' Luis Muriel knocks the ball back to start the second half. 
The teams are back in the tunnel ahead of the second half. 
The home side have proved themselves more than happy to do the dirty work tonight. They've conceded 10 fouls compared to one by Leganés. 
Leganés have ridden their luck at the end of the half - clearing two shots off the line. Correa had put Sevilla ahead earlier in the half, but Luis Muriel has been the main danger-man. 
45' HT. 
45'   Lega clear off the line AGAIN! Navas careers down the right on the overlap and crosses from the byline. Diego Rico turns the ball behind for a corner, which Banega floats to Escudero at the far post. The centre-half loops a head back towards the corner, and it looks to be creeping in until Tito hooks it clear. 
43'   Gabriel hits a bouncing ball from the edge of the box. It was bouncing across his body, which made it awkward, and he drags the shot past the post. 
42'   Tito clears the ball off the line for Leganés! Muriel moves out to the left and faces up against Bustinza. He drops a shoulder and glides past the defender before cuttting the ball back to Banega. He shoots low and beats Champagne, but not Tito.  
40'   Tito floats a ball in to the six-yard box, and in to Rico's awaiting arms. The first half is finishing as it started - with end-to-end action. 
38'   Excellent battling from El Zhar and Beauvue. The latter wins a throw-in by the corner flag with some industrious pressing of Lenglet. Sevilla quickly win the ball back after the throw-in is taken, and Pérez is forced to commit a foul to prevent a counter-attack.
36'   Claudio Beauvue leaps like a salmon on a trampoline to meet Diego Rico's cross at the near post. He got up well, but can't keep the ball down. Rico watches it fly over the bar. 
34'   Sarabia unleashes a flurry of stepovers, cuts inside, and aims for the far corner. Diego Rico has watched the ball rather than Sarabia's legs, and gets a block in. 
30'   Eraso bends a sumptuous ball to Tito, who is bursting forward in acres of space on the right. Lenglet slides across to cover and knocks the ball behind for a corner. Sevilla 'keeper Sergio Rico made a meal of a corner in the first leg, and doesn't deal with this one particularly well. He punches it straight up in the air. Mercado, with a cool head, clears. 
29'   Correa clutches his face and rolls around a bit following an aerial challenge with Tito. The Argentine hauls himself up and is good to continue. 
27'   Pablo Sarabia hurls a torrent of abuse at the linesman. 'I respectfully disagree with your decision but appreciate that you have a hard job'. Or something like that. Maybe. The Sevilla man isn't happy about conceding a foul and relinquishing possession. 
26'   Banega lingers on the ball and slams a pass in to Pérez's shins. The Argentine string-puller has looked uncharacteristically sluggish tonight, particularly as he's been in a rich vein of form in 2018.
24'   Diego Rico trots across the pitch to swing a free-kick in to the box from the right. The Lega players vociferously appeal for handball - it´s not clear who's hand - but to no avail. 
21'   Leganés have barely touched the ball since Champagne picked it out of his own net. Sevilla haven't had the ball in dangerous areas... until Muriel peels in to the channel and swings a cross towards Correa. Bustinza positions himself well and heads it clear with a swift flex of his neck muscles. 
19'   Due to the away goals rule, Leganés had to score tonight anyway. But Correa's opener means that one goal will only get them extra-time, rather than a first final in history. 
17'   The volume has gone up to eleven and the red-and-white flags behind the goal are waving with a little bit more vigour. Advantage Sevilla. 
15' GOL GOL GOL! Tucu Correa stabs Sevilla in to the lead from close range after tenacious work from Luis Muriel to carry the ball in to the box from the right. That's his fifth goal of the competition. Only Victor Curto of Murcia has scored more (6). 
14'   The tempo has slowed down (slightly) after a frantic opening ten minutes. The game is settling in to the pattern we expected: Sevilla have the ball and are probing for gaps. Leganés are remaining compact and trying to avoid leaving those gaps. 
11'   A rare misplaced pass from Ever Banega allows Lega to burst forward from the half-way line. El Zhar works the ball out to Diego Rico on the left. The No.15 can't bend his cross beyond Mercado and Sevilla clear the danger. 
9'   Jesús Navas betrays the fact that he is playing out of position at right-back. The ex-Manchester City winger allows Amrabat to turn and shoot. Luckily for Navas, Amrabat leans back and thumps the ball in to the crowd. He claums that he was pushed, but the referee just points for the goal kick. 
6'   We go straight back to the other end. This is frenetic. El Zhar scaps well in the box but can't get a shot away. Neither can Beuavue. The ball drops for Eraso, and the linesman's flag goes up as he is preparing to shoot. 
5'   Now the home side turn it on. Muriel picks up the ball on the left, cuts inside, and backheels the ball to Correa, who is overlapping behidn him. Lega make a meal of clearing Correa's low cross, and Sarabia eventually gives the ball away with an overhit cross. 
3'   Leganés fire the first shot of the match. El Zhar muscles past Escudero and cuts the ball to the edge of the six-yard box. Beauvue shoots under pressure from Lenglet, and sends the ball over the bar before tumbling over in to a forward roll. 
2'   Sevilla settle in to a spell of possession after a helter-skelter start. Sarabia tries to work the ball in to the box from the right, but it trickles out for a goal kick. 
1' Off we go! Leganés get the semi-final second leg underway.
Here they come! The referee picks up the ball - which is mysteriously floating on some contraption on the plinth - and they stride to the centre. They've turned the lights off in the stadium and the atmosphere is spectacular. 
The teams are gathering in the tunnel at the Sánchez Pizjuán. 
Warm-ups are underway. Ex Liverpool winger Nabil El Zhar is taking centre stage here. 
Gabriel is the man to watch for Leganés. The bustling midfielder scored at the Bernabéu to send his side through to this stage. It's surprising that Lega have managed to hold on to their captain through the last couple of transfer windows. 
"The atmosphere will be intense. But not to the extent that they'll start the match with a 1-0 advantage," said Asier Garitano yesterday. 
Here's the scene outside the Sánchez Pizjuán, where there'll be a noisy night in store. 
TEAM NEWS! Montella and Garitano both select their teams without springing any surprises. Sevilla name the same line-up as in the first leg, while Gabriel comes in for Darko in the Leganés midfield. 
Leganés XI: Champagne; Tito, Bustinza, Siovas, Rico; Gabriel, Rubén Pérez; El Zhar, Eraso, Amrabat; Beauvue.
Sevilla XI: Sergio Rico; Navas, Mercado, Lenglet, Escudero; N'Zonzi, Banega; Sarabia, Vázquez, Correa; Muriel. 
Pablo Sarabia's 'own-brand' shin pads are quite the lower legwear product. I wonder where you go to get customised shin pads? 
The Leganés team bus doing a good job of sullying the lovely mosaic that adorns the side of the Sánchez Pizjuán. 
Hello and welcome! The first spot in the Copa del Rey final will be decided tonight, as Sevilla host Leganés. We'll take you through to kick-off and then provide minute-by-minute commentary from the Sánchez Pizjuán. 
Line-ups

