Hillsdale College Football Welcomes Freshman Class of 2018
Feb 05, 2018
The Hillsdale College football program is excited to announce the addition of 23 student-athletes on the occasion of 2018 National Signing Day Wednesday afternoon. Head coach Keith Otterbein is expected to add more players to next year's roster over the course of the next several weeks.
This year's class is highlighted by a set of high school teammates as well as two players who are younger brothers of current Charger players.
Kyle Kudla and Max Torbert, teammates at Avon High School in Ohio, will remain teammates as Chargers, both signing with Hillsdale. Current Charger players Chance Stewart and Martin Petersen will welcome younger brothers Brecken Stewart and Shannon Petersen to the squad in 2018. The Stewarts hail from nearby Sturgis, Michigan, while Shannon Petersen will play for his hometown team.
Players from nine different states are represented in this year's signing day class. The class carries an average high school grade point average of 3.79.
"Our players know coming in, they have to be students first," said Hillsdale College head coach Keith Otterbein. "These guys will be challenged in the classroom as well as on the football field, but as a coaching staff, we're excited to see how this group rises to those challenges."
Ideally, most, if not all incoming players will be redshirted in their first year. But occasionally, true freshmen will see the field, and in 2017, a handul of players from the 2017 signing day class made a positive impact on the field for the Chargers. Defensive back Anthony Humm played his way into a starting role midway through the season. Wide receiver Konnor Maloney became an emerging prospect at his position, and caught 6 passes for 194 yards and 2 touchdowns last year, an impressive 32.3 yards per catch. Maloney is also competing for the Charger men's track team and has become a strong member of its relay teams.
Punter Jack Shannon stepped into a starting role right away when he arrived last year and averaged 38 yards per punt as a true freshman.
The 2018 season kicks off at home for Hillsdale as it welcomes Mercyhurst in a non-league contest at 7:00 Saturday night, September 1. The Chargers finished 7-4 in their first season in the Great Midwest Athletic Conference in 2017, and recorded three shutouts, most in one season in 22 years.
The list below will expand as more players are added to the freshman class of #Team126. 
 

