Ex-Eagles ace Paul Obiefule quits football, bags degree in Denmark
By
February 5, 2018, 4:00 pm
1451
Tweet on Twitter
Paul Obiefule is now a university graduate in Denmark after he quit professional football
Former Super Eagles’ midfielder Paul Obiefule has quit football and has now bagged a degree in international sales & marketing from the University of Northern Denmark, Aalborg.
His proud mum and older brother joined the former Lyn Oslo captain at the colourful graduation party.
Obiefule decided to take the education route when he left Swedish side Assyriska FF a few years ago, to prepare himself adequately for the challenges of life after football.
A delighted Obiefule told ScoreNigeria.com.ng he was wasting no time to enroll for a master’s degree programme in Denmark.
“I feel fulfilled now that I have bagged a university degree and I’m happy about that,” he said.
“Having my mum come around for this memorable day will live with me for long.
“Thanks also to my friends and media friends for their encouragement.
“Life after football is tough and unpredictable and it’s wise for players to prepare for it.
“I will decide what to do when I’m fully done with education.”
Paul Obiefule with his proud mother and brother at his graduation in Denmark
Obiefule dumped university education to face football back in Nigeria, starting at amateur side JC Raiders in Jos to Sweden, where he paused his professional career for books.
He is presently playing a lowly club in Denmark to keep his fitness.
Obiefule played in all the Scandinavian countries except Iceland, beginning his adventure at Viborg FF in 2004.
 
Please enter your name here
You have entered an incorrect email address!
Please enter your email address here
MOST COMMENTED
September 2, 2017, 8:11 am
HOT NEWS
Rumours of sack of NFF general secretary Mohammed Sanusi persists despite denials February 19, 2018, 12:14 pm
Several top NFF officials have vehemently denied a plan to dismiss general secretary Mohammed Sanusi, but this rumour just won’t go away. The matter may even have been discussed at today’s NFF executive committee in Lagos. The romance between Sanusi and the NFF leadership led by Amaju Pinnick and engineered by a former NFF chieftain […]
Samm Audu
Kano Pillars confirm Chinedu Udoji’s death February 19, 2018, 8:26 am
Kano Pillars have confirmed in an official statement made available to SCORENigeria that defender Chinedu Udoji lost his life in a car accident today. Kano Pillars have lost their dedicated and committed central defender Chinedu Udoji this morning Monday,” read the statement signed by club spokesman Rilwanu Idris Malikawa. “Udoji lost his life in a […]
admin
BREAKING NEWS: Kano Pillars star Chinedu Udoji dies in auto crash February 19, 2018, 5:31 am
Kano Pillars defender Chinedu Udoji gave up the ghost this morning following a car accident inside Kano last night, various reports have said. No-nonsense central defender Udoji was Man of the Match in yesterday’s NPFL Week 9 match against his former club Enyimba, which ended in a 1-1 draw. SCORENigeria is still awaiting an official […]
admin
John Obuh praises Kwara United character after super comeback at Nasarawa United February 19, 2018, 5:15 am
Excited Kwara United coach John Obuh has told SCORENigeria he was pleased with the character shown by his players to fight back to earn a point at Nasarawa United. Kwara United showed fighting spirit in their MatchDay 9 encounter against Nasarawa United to earn a point after going 3-1 down away from home in a […]
admin
Katsina United sink billionaire club FC Ifeanyiubah 3-0 February 19, 2018, 4:56 am
Katsina United recorded yet another comfortable home win victory over FC IfeanyiUbah in an entertaining and action-packed encounter decided at the Muhammadu Dikko Stadium in Katsina.  Katsina United have now shot to fifth position on the back of this result with 13 points from nine games. Goals from Eric Dufegha, Tasiu Lawal and Destiny Ashadi […]
admin

