KEY EVENT
That's all folks!
That’s all our questions for today! Don’t worry if we didn’t answer yours - we’ll be touching on the unanswered ones on our podcast later today!
11:02
KEY EVENT
Final question: Clean sheet potential
There are lots of mid-table teams looking like keeping clean sheets over the next coming weeks which is why we’ve had a good question come in from SlyKingTails.
They asked: “Which non-top six teams with cheaper defensive assets are you targeting for coverage over the next 5 gameweeks?”
The answer to this question is brought to you by Herald FPL writer David Munday .
Burnley's Nick Pope has been perhaps the budget pick of the season (Image: Getty Images)
He said: “Personally I am looking at adding some cover for either Burnley, Swansea City or both.
“Those two sides have really nice fixtures coming up with the Clarets especially offering great clean sheet potential.
“They play Swansea (A), Southampton (H), Everton (H), West Ham (A), Chelsea (H) and West Brom (A) between now and GW32 with the vast majority of those teams particularly goal-shy right now.
“In fact, five of those six sides rank in the bottom half of the table for shots taken in the last six gameweeks. Everton, West Ham and Swansea are in the bottom four!
“Burnley have already demonstrated their ability to keep clean sheets this year so I’d trust them with double coverage over that period.
“Nick Pope (if Tom Heaton stays away from a return) and Ben Mee will probably be the way to go.
“However, Swansea’s run is looking equally appealing. They’ve got Burnley (H), Brighton (A), West Ham (H), Huddersfield (A), Southampton (H) and Manchester United (A) over the same period.
“There’s a lot of overlap with Burnley’s run with the worst Premier League team right now in Huddersfield right now thrown in for good measure - they are bottom of the form table for goals-scored and shots taken.
“I’d probably get one defender in either Alfie Mawson (£5.0m) or Federico Fernandez (£4.4m) as they carry some goal-threat too.
“If you want to make up some ground in your mini-leagues maybe consider a double-up by getting Lukasz Fabianski (£4.6m) as well. He’s a save points magnet!”
10:43
KEY EVENT
Question 4: Taking hits
With the blank and double gameweeks coming up there are some managers worried about how they will cope before they turn up. With injuries and non-playing assets piling up, it can be tempting to think about the Wildcard now - even if it could be more powerful later.
Sam Williams asks: “Is it worth taking an 8 or 12 point hit now to help me save my Wildcard for the DGWs?”
This answer is brought to you by FPL Chief of website FPL Hints .
Signing new players can be stressful in FPL!
He says: “I think an occasional -8 or rare -12 is justified if it means refreshing your squad while preserving your second wildcard until the Double Gameweeks.
“I would go as far as to say that regular -4 hits can be a healthy thing from a strategy perspective, provided you’re buying in-form players that continue to return points.
“You also have to hope that the player that you sell stops performing altogether.
“Avoid selling players for a hit that are in-form and starting matches regularly as any points they score would in essence have to be exceeded by your incoming players.
“It’s often best to take a hit for injured players and suspended players due to the lack of risk involved.
“With that said, transfer hits should be treated as long-term investments for your FPL squad and not done on a whim.
“You could incur regular ‘red arrows’ if you take a large number of hits and they fail.
“Tip: The best way to absorb a transfer hit is to do a ‘mini-wildcard’.
“By that I mean undertaking a hit if you also have two free transfers at hand.
“With this approach a -8 that brings in four players in essence becomes a -2 deduction per player rather than -2.67, thus easing the burden on your new recruits.”
10:32
KEY EVENT
Question 3: Time to ditch Chelsea?
After consecutive shock defeats against Bournemouth and Watford, with seven goals conceded in the process, FPL managers are considering pulling out of Chelsea cover.
FPL Kernow asks: “Chelsea face Man United away in GW28 and Man City away in GW29. As an Alonso and Hazard owner should I hold both? Sell both? Or just keep one of them?”
I’ve decided to take this one on! Here’s my answer:
“I think you’ve got to be very worried having those players in your team for the next few weeks. Chelsea’s 4-1 defeat to Watford on Monday night showed that the 3-0 home loss to Bournemouth was more than just a blip.
“What’s more, Alonso now has a muscle injury which is why he did not feature at Vicarage Road.
“I think for now you can probably keep them in your side. As has been discussed a lot in the FPL community this week, it would be good to hold off making transfers this week.
“That’s because it will allow you to make more for free after the FA Cup fifth round - that’s when we will have more of an idea what GW31 will look like.
“The fixture schedule for GW27 has been kind to Chelsea owners in that respect. Before they face Manchester United and Manchester City they’ve got a home tie against West Bromwich Albion.
“I’d be happy keeping Hazard for that and reviewing afterwards. As for Alonso, keep an eye on the press conferences this week to find out what to do with him.
“Antonio Conte implied on Monday night that the injury may not be too serious and if he still has a positive outlook later this week, again, hang on for one more week.”
Chelsea have been in poor form of late (Image: Getty Images)
10:21
KEY EVENT
Question 2: When to play your chips
This is a big topic right now as the blank and double gameweeks creep up on us.
“When is the right time to play all four chips (Wildcard/Free Hit/Triple Captain/Bench Boost)?”
The answer to this question is brought to you by Tom from Who Got the Assist?
“I recently wrote an article on this which you can find HERE ,” he said.
“There’s actually a TL;DR at the end of the article.
“From now until GW31: Dead-end team
“GW32: Deploy Wildcard

