Have one to sell? Sell now
Details about  MISSOURI TIGER RUNNING BACK TOY 2.5" FIGURE LIL TEAMMATES NCAA COLLEGE FOOTBALL
MISSOURI TIGER RUNNING BACK TOY 2.5" FIGURE LIL TEAMMATES NCAA COLLEGE FOOTBALL
Sellers with highest buyer ratings
Returns, money back
jenstad has no other items for sale.
Item Information
Quantity:
More than 10 available
Please enter a quantity of $qty_dummy$ or less Please enter a quantity of 1 Purchases are limited to $qty_dummy$ per buyer Please enter quantity of 1 or more Please enter a lower number Choose quantity that is less than $qty_dummy1$ or equal to $qty_dummy$ You can only choose quantity that is equal to $qty_dummy$
Was:
What does this price mean?
Recent sales price provided by the seller
You save:
Resume making your offer , if the page does not update immediately.
 
$3.34 Standard Shipping | See details
 
United States and many other countries        | See details
Import charges:
(amount confirmed at checkout) To be provided at checkout  help icon for Shipping - opens a layer
This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab This amount includes applicable customs duties, taxes, brokerage and other fees. This amount is subject to change until you make payment. If you reside in an EU member state besides UK, import VAT on this purchase is not recoverable. For additional information, see the Global Shipping Program terms and conditions- opens in a new window or tab
No additional import charges on delivery
Delivery:
Estimated on or before Sat. Feb. 24 to  help icon for Estimated delivery date - opens a layer
Delivery time is estimated using our proprietary method which is based on the buyer's proximity to the item location, the shipping service selected, the seller's shipping history, and other factors. Delivery times may vary, especially during peak periods.
Payments:
Credit Cards processed by PayPal
Get more time to pay. 
Loading...
An error occurred, please try again.
International shipping and import charges paid to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab Any international shipping and import charges are paid in part to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab International shipping paid to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab Any international shipping is paid in part to Pitney Bowes Inc. Learn More- opens in a new window or tab
Returns:
30 day returns. Buyer pays for return shipping. 20% restocking fee may apply |  See details
Guarantee:
Money Back Guarantee Covered by eBay Money Back Guarantee  |  See details - opens in a new window or tab
Get the item you ordered or get your money back.
Covers your purchase price and original shipping.
Add to cart to save with this special offer
If you Buy It Now, you'll only be purchasing this item. If you'd like to get the additional items you've selected to qualify for this offer, close this window and add these items to your cart.
Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing.
Last updated on  Feb 06, 2018 17:26:28 PST  View all revisions
Item specifics
Condition:
New: A brand-new, unused, unopened, undamaged item (including handmade items). See the seller's listing for full details. See all condition definitions- opens in a new window or tab ... Read moreabout the condition
Brand:
Seller assumes all responsibility for this listing.
Shipping and handling
This item will ship to United States, but the seller has not specified shipping options. Contact the seller- opens in a new window or tab and request a shipping method to your location.
Shipping cost cannot be calculated. Please enter a valid ZIP Code.
Save on shipping. This seller offers shipping discounts when you purchase two or more eligible items using the cart.
Item location: Glendora, California, United States
Shipping to: United States, Canada, United Kingdom, Denmark, Romania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Czech Republic, Finland, Hungary, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Estonia, Australia, Greece, Portugal, Cyprus, Slovenia, China, Sweden, Korea, South, Indonesia, Taiwan, South Africa, Thailand, Belgium, France, Hong Kong, Ireland, Netherlands, Poland, Spain, Italy, Germany, Austria, Russian Federation, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Philippines, Singapore, Switzerland, Norway, Saudi Arabia, Ukraine, United Arab Emirates, Qatar, Kuwait, Bahrain, Croatia, Republic of, Malaysia, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Panama, Trinidad and Tobago, Guatemala, El Salvador, Honduras, Jamaica
Excludes: APO/FPO
No additional import charges at delivery!
This item will be shipped through the Global Shipping Program and includes international tracking. Learn more- opens in a new window or tab
Quantity:
There are 11 items available. Please enter a number less than or equal to 11.
Select a valid country.
Please enter a valid ZIP Code.
Please enter 5 or 9 numbers for the ZIP Code.
Shipping and handling

