Save
HAMMOND -- Frank Scelfo’s first signing class features two from Livingston Parish, and he’s hoping that’s just the start of things for athletes in the area when it comes to playing at Southeastern.
The Lions added seven players Wednesday, including Walker linebacker Josh Cook and kicker Nathan Holliday of Live Oak.
The players the Lions added Wednesday are in addition to 10 players who signed during the early signing period.
Scelfo said getting Cook into the fold at SLU was helped by the fact that he has ties to Walker coach Lester Ricard, having coached Ricard at Tulane. Holliday was coached by Brett Beard, who played for the Lions in 2003.
“I’m going to Walker High School,” Scelfo said. “I’m going to see Lester. I’m close to his mom, his dad, his wife. Not only this year, but in the future, we’re going to camp out there. We’re going to that school, and we’re going to get every kid that we can out of that school that we feel can help us win. The same thing with Brett.
“The thing with Lester, his loyalty would be to me. Brett’s is the other way. He loves Hammond and Southeastern Louisiana. He just met me, so it’s my job to build that trust with him to know that we’re going to do everything that we can with his guys to help them out.”
+2 
Live Oak's Nathan Holliday (88) kicks a field goal during Friday's game against East Ascension on Nov. 17, 2017.
Haskell Whittington III
Scelfo said he watched Cook, who had over 100 tackles last season, play basketball for the Wildcats and was impressed. Cook was twice voted to the All-Parish football team, this season as the Co-Defensive MVP.
“The guy is player, man,” Scelfo said. “Really unique guy. He’s a good player.”
Sclefo said he visited with Beard and Holliday and he’s hoping to grow the relationship with Live Oak.
“(Beard) is a good guy,” Scelfo said. “He’s going to always have players there. We want those players to come here. We want to keep them here.
“(Holliday’s) a local guy right here in our own backyard, so we didn’t want to lose him. He’s got a strong leg.”
The majority of the Lions’ first signing class was already in the fold, with nine players signing in December and two Division I transfers -- defensive back Xavier Lewis (LSU) and quarterback Chason Virgil (Fresno State -- joining the program in January.
“The staff did a really good job identifying need positions, so they went after those guys,” said Scelfo, who was introduced as the Lions’ coach last week.
“Really pleased with the guys – not only the talent level that we got, but the numbers to fill in some of those positions due to graduation and things like that.”
The class features four linebackers and three defensive backs. At linebacker, in addition to Cook, the Lions added Josh Carr of Houston, Mike Mason of El Camino College and Semaj Thomas of Jones County JC. The defensive backs are Lewis, Matthew Wright of Navarre College and Donniel Ward-Magee of St. Augustine HS.
“There’s a big loss on the back end, the back seven, with a lot of guys this past season, so there will be a lot of new faces there this coming year,” Scelfo said.
+2 
Frank Scelfo was introduced as Southeastern's 16th football coach Tuesday.
Randy Bergeron | Southeastern Public Information
“We feel like those guys will be able to step in and contribute immediately. We need them to.”
The Lions also added four offensive linemen – Jarius Gooch of Holmes Community College, Kaleb Hogg of Sulphur High, Brendon Kelley of Pine and Brennan Lanclos of Lakeshore High.
Running back Taron Jones (Mandeville HS), defensive lineman Dante Carter (St. Augustine HS), receiver Marquis Williams (Palomar College) and quarterback Chris Penton (Lakeshore HS) round out the class.
Scelfo said he’s counting on the Lions’ junior college signees to make an immediate impact.
“The junior college guys, the transfers, these are not developmental guys,” he said. “These guys are coming in to compete right now for the job.”
Although the Lions already have quarterbacks Lorenzo Nunez and Byron Walker in the fold from last season, Scelfo isn’t concerned about adding Virgil and Penton.
“I think what you’ve got to be able to do is you’ve got to manage the room, and then you create competition,” Scelfo said of the quarterback situation.
“Can you have too many? Nope. You need as many as you can get – create competition.”
SOUTHEASTERN LOUISIANA
Josh Carr, LB, 6-3, 220, Houston, Texas (Westfield HS)
*Dante' Carter, DL, 6-0, 315, New Orleans, Louisiana (St. Augustine HS)
Josh Cook, LB, 5-11, 210, Walker, Louisiana (Walker HS)
**Jarius Gooch, OL, 6-2, 290, Water Valley, Miss. (Holmes CC/Water Valley HS)
Kaleb Hogg, OL, 6-3, 270, Sulphur, Louisiana (Sulphur HS)
Nathan Holliday, K, 6-2, 195, Watson, Louisiana (Live Oak HS)
*Taron Jones, RB, 5-10, 187, Mandeville, Louisiana (Mandeville HS)
*Brendon Kelley, OL, 6-4, 323, Franklinton, Louisiana (Pine HS)
Brennan Lanclos, OL, 6-7, 280, Mandeville, Louisiana (Lakeshore HS)
**Xavier Lewis, DB, 6-0, 200, LaPlace, Louisiana (East St. John HS)
**Mike Mason, LB, 5-11, 215, Encino, California (El Camino College/Crespi HS)
Chris Penton, QB, 6-0, 185, Mandeville, Louisiana (Lakeshore HS)
**Semaj Thomas, LB, 6-2, 237, Fort Worth, Texas (Jones County JC/Southwest HS)
**Chason Virgil, QB, 6-1, 192, Mesquite, Texas (West Mesquite HS)
Donniel Ward-Magee, DB, 6-1, 165, New Orleans, Louisiana (St. Augustine HS)
**Marquis Williams, WR, 6-0, 180, Daytona Beach, Florida (Palomar College/Father Lopez HS)
**Matthew Wright, DB, 5-11, 190, Austin, Texas (Navarre College/McNeil HS)
* -- Signed during the December signing period
** -- Currently enrolled at Southeastern and will participate in spring practice

