Liverpool star Mohamed Salah on his Champions League memories, supporting the Reds and knowing he's good
Reds favourite says he grew up dreaming of playing in Europe's premier competition
by Andy Kelly
15:10, 15 Feb 2018
If Carlsberg did interviews this was the one Liverpool fans around the world wanted to hear.
Mohamed Salah , the new King of the Kop, speaking about his love for the club and how he is now playing where he has always wanted to play.
With 28 goals under his belt already - including two against Spurs on Sunday - Salah’s stunning impact at Anfield has had the unwanted knock-on effect of starting suggestions that Salah would be a target for a move away from Anfield, perhaps as early as this summer.
But in his first major magazine interview as a Red, Salah has told FourFourTwo that he’s loving life at LFC.
Salah told their March 2018 edition: “I have loved the club since I was young and knew this was a team I wanted to play for.
“I knew the history this club has and, as soon as I got the chance, I had to make it happen.”
Mo Salah features in the March 2018 edition of FourFourTwo
Such protestations have been heard from new players before of course and some observers might wonder why such fondness didn’t see Salah arrive on Merseyside in January 2014 instead of Chelsea?
Maybe that explains why his representatives then are no longer in place and he is now looked after by his new agent Ramy Abbas.
Salah speaks warmly of his relationship with Jurgen Klopp and his teammates - especially Sadio Mane - at Anfield, while also insisting he continues to have a good relationship with Jose Mourinho despite his issues at Chelsea. He also looks back on his childhood where he started playing - as a left-back!
Salah’s stunning six months at Anfield have surprised many, even given that £36.9m price tag from Roma, but the man himself always backed himself.
Mohamed Salah celebrates after scoring the first goal during the Premier League match between Liverpool and Tottenham Hotspur at Anfield(Image: Clive Brunskill/Getty Images)
Read More
Liverpool must do everything to keep 'Egyptian King' Mohamed Salah on his throne
In a rare moment of self-promotion, he said: “Come on, I know I’m good! I was comfortable at Roma, I had two great seasons there and I was very happy, but I’ve always been the sort of guy who takes a chance, to put myself under pressure.”
Liverpool’s return to the Champions League knock-out stages next week against Porto looks sure to be an occasion the player will relish with the tournament occupying a special place in his heart.
 
“My earliest football memory was watching the Champions League matches. I always loved watching Zidane, (his future Roma team-mate) Totti and the Brazilian Ronaldo. It’s an amazing feeling when you hear that music now before kick-off.”
A strong performance in the Champions League will no doubt see even more renditions of his new Kop song, where he is hailed as “the Egyptian King”.
What does he think of that new “King of the Kop” tag?
“I don’t know if it’s up to me say that, so maybe I’ll just let the fans say that. I’m happy scoring goals for the club I supported as a kid - that’s all that matters.”
Read much more from Mo Salah in the March 2018 edition of FourFourTwo which is in the shops now
Good news stories like this happen to us all each day - but don't hit the headlines
We’ve teamed up with Cancer Research UK to raise funds for its fight against the disease and to share and celebrate good news stories happening right now for patients and survivors across the country.
Good news might be receiving positive test results or the moment your hair grows back for the first time after chemo.
Thanks to the charity – which receives no government funding for its research – UK cancer survival has doubled in the last 40 years.
But there is so much that still needs to be done for Cancer Research UK to bring more good news to more people every day.
To donate and help more people survive or for more info visit cruk.org
Place a bet >

