Florida State Spring Football Preview Series: Linebackers
Curt Weiler , Tallahassee Democrat Published 4:32 p.m. ET Feb. 7, 2018
CLOSE
Wayne and Curt break down FSU's linebacker unit heading into spring practice. Wayne McGahee III/Democrat
Buy Photo
Junior linebacker Dontavious Jackson looks to take a starting spot for FSU this offseason.
(Photo: Wayne McGahee III/Democrat)Buy Photo
CONNECT TWEET LINKEDIN COMMENTEMAILMORE
The Florida State football team enters spring practice with the unenviable task of replacing its three most used linebackers from 2017.
But the Seminoles may just have the talent and depth to pull off these replacements with minimal drop-off.
FSU loses inside linebackers Matthew Thomas and Ro'Derrick Hoskins as well as outside linebacker Jacob Pugh, all seniors on last year's team.
Under new defensive coordinator Harlon Barnett, the linebacker position looks to become more unified with all LBs serving as stand-up defenders and none filling in as edge rushers, as Pugh did at OLB throughout his career.
FSU has a number of rising juniors and sophomores ready to take the next step at FSU and the playing time is definitely there for the taking.
Junior linebacker Dontavious Jackson -- a Top 100 recruit in the 2016 recruiting class -- seemed to be perpetually moving in and out of the coaching staff's "dog house" a season ago.
After appearing in 12 games as a freshman, Jackson saw playing time in just nine games in 2017.
When he was on the field, however, he stood out as one of FSU's best linebackers. He is a front-runner for a starting spot and can show why in spring practice.
Junior Josh Brown has split time between outside and inside linebacker in practice across his first two years at FSU and is looking for a spot in the new defensive scheme.
Brown was used sparingly on defense in 2017, but made an impact when used. Against Wake Forest, he played four total snaps and registered two tackles.
Brown's future may be at linebacker or at defensive end -- where FSU is in desperate need of depth -- and this spring could be the time to figure that out.
Emmett Rice -- FSU's other 2016 signee at linebacker -- suffered an injury late in the Independence Bowl and his status remains up in the air for spring practice.
Sophomore Leonard Warner III -- a Signing Day addition for the Seminoles last year -- contributed more than expected as a freshman, registering five tackles in 12 games. He is a prime candidate for increased snaps in 2018.
Adonis Thomas -- the Alabama transfer who arrived at FSU last season -- has two years of eligibility left and is a contender for a spot after substantial playing time in the linebacker rotation in 2017.
DeCalon Brooks -- the son of FSU legend Derrick Brooks -- redshirted last season while recovering from a knee injury he suffered his senior year of high school.
His size --5'10, 202 pounds -- projects him more as a defensive back, but he may prove to be a capable linebacker this spring now that he's healthy.
FSU looks to add at least one more linebacker to its 2018 class on National Signing Day, but four-star early enrollee Amari Gainer is already on campus.
Gainer -- who played for nearby Chiles High School -- has the versatility to play at defensive end or linebacker. Spring practice will indicate where he is getting reps.
Like many other positions across the roster, there's a plethora of playing time available in FSU's linebacker rotation.
Spring practice will be a crucial time to see which players are the leaders heading into summer workouts and preseason camp.

