266
Danny Jordaan
A highly respected member of the Executive Committee of the Confederation of African Football (CAF) and South Africa FA boss Danny Jordaan has been shockingly accused of rape by a musician in his country 24 years ago.
Jennifer Ferguson, who is a singer and now lives in Sweden, made her earth-shattering allegation in the wake of the naming and shaming of powerful film maker Harvey Weinstien in America.
She repeated her accusation on Thursday that she was raped by the man who is credited for organising South Africa’s successful hosting of the 2010 World Cup.
She named the former MP of the ruling African National Congress as her alleged rapist as she had done a day earlier on Facebook.
Ferguson said the incident occurred 24 years ago.
The administrator has not commented on the allegations and has not answered phone calls and messages.
The allegations came to light on Wednesday after Ferguson joined the social media campaign #MeToo, which encourages women to share their experiences and speak out against sexual assault.
Ferguson says she was sexually assaulted 24 years ago at a hoel in the city of Port Elizabeth.
She says he invited her to go for a drink after she gave a performance.
Ferguson claims that he entered her hotel room. “He overpowered me and painfully raped me. It must have been over in about 20 seconds although it felt like a lifetime. He left immediately without saying a word.”
Ferguson says she was not sure what to do.
“Bewildered. Not sure what to do. I washed and left the hotel and began to walk. I reached the beach and sat there a very long time trying to process what had happened. The thought of going to the police felt intolerable. What would I say? Should I have screamed louder? Fought him off harder? Had I been complicit in some way?”
In the post she adds: “I am deeply sorry that I was unable to report it when it happened. I apologise from my heart to any woman or young girl that may have suffered abuse by this man, as a result of my colluding in the conspiracy of silence.”
Ferguson says it’s better to speak out about the abuse than to keep silent.
“I am hoping that people who have not had the gift to publicly disclose and be believed, that I can also facilitate in whatever way I can.”
Ferguson says she battled with the pain for many years.
“What prevented me from reporting it straight afterwards was that I had already washed. I had walked to the beach, I was completely in shock.”
“Disclosure after 24 years. I was probably not the only woman raped by this man. I am deeply sorry that I was unable to report it when it happened and I apologise from my heart to any woman or young girl that may have suffered abuse by this man as a result of my colluding in the conspiracy of silence”.
Ferguson said that she could now begin the process of forgiveness.
Ferguson and Jordaan served as MPs in the country’s First National Parliament, under then President Nelson Mandela between 1994 and 1997.
She is an acclaimed singer, songwriter, composer, recording artist, actress and writer who now lives in Sweden.

