In the meantime, let's take a look at what's already on the board. 
Here are a few of my thoughts on the current state of Michigan's 2018 crop. 
Top defensive player: LB Cameron McGrone
I'll agree with the recruiting rankings on this one. The more I watch Cameron McGrone's tape, the more I'm reminded of Devin Bush Jr. McGrone is an explosive defender with great instincts who plays bigger than his size. 
He's 6-foot-1, 225 pounds. Bush is 5-foot-11, 222. But when you watch him on the field, you don't focus on his frame — you focus on his speed and instinct. That's what I get when watching McGrone, who is a slashing linebacker who can make reads and beat linemen to his read. 
More: Michigan football's Cameron McGrone: The 5-star student and athlete
He doesn't get caught in the wash much because he's reading and reacting almost as fast as he's running. This is the type of versatile linebacker everyone wants in modern college football. The guy who is fast enough to cover athletes in space and crash the opposing backfield. The lack of size doesn't matter, because these type of players run downhill and bring a hammer with them. 
McGrone is a special player in my book. He could play either inside linebacker spot. He has a bright future. 
Top offensive player: TE Mustapha Muhammad
Missouri City (Texas) Ridge Point tight end Mustapha Muhammad
 (Photo: Isaiah Hole Wolverine247)
Watching his senior film, Mustapha Muhammad appears to have improved his blocking. You don't see a ton of this from prep tight ends that aren't glorified linemen. More often than not, an athletic tight end like Muhammad lines up in the slot and makes his living catching passes. 
But this guy looks to be a real two-way tight end who might be ready to play immediately. Muhammad's listed at 6-foot-4, 244 pounds. He catches the ball with his hands and has longish arms that allow him to both compete for throws in the air and drive people off the ball at the line of scrimmage. 
More: Michigan hopes to keep Otis Reese, land 5-star OT Nicholas Petit-Frere
Strength gains are a priority for every freshman. And once Muhammad picks up the necessary gains inside Michigan's weight room, his natural technique as a blocker will go a long way. 
He could be an H-back or a tight end in this offense. He's not a specialty player, though, he's an every-down type of tight end prospect. His ability to move and punch at the line of scrimmage is above average for a player his age. 
Traverse City West's Ryan Hayes scores a touchdown in a playoff game against Traverse City Central at Thirlby Field.
 (Photo: Jan-Michael Stump, Traverse City Record-Eagle)
Most intriguing prospect: TE/T Ryan Hayes
Michigan listed Ryan Hayes as a tight end, which is where he played in high school. Same time, he looks like a fascinating left tackle prospect/project at 6-foot-7, 262 pounds. 
This guy is a hammer at the point of attack along the line of scrimmage. He bends well, he's very athletic and he finishes. 
More: Michigan football: QB Kevin Doyle decommits in class of 2018
The leverage he plays with at 6-foot-7 is pretty ridiculous. When an offensive line coach talks about bend, he's speaking about a player's natural ability to fire off the ball with leverage, despite his height, while maintaining his natural athleticism. He's not awkward or stiff, he's just driving people. 
If Michigan keeps him at tight end, he's a very interesting prospect. If he moves to tackle, he'll obviously need to work on his pass protection fundamentals and put on more weight, but his ceiling as a lineman could be outstanding. 
Julius Welschof, the defensive lineman from Germany, was an option here. But I went with Hayes. Both are big men who move really, really well. 
Most versatile: RB/QB/WR Michael Barrett
Basically, Michael Barrett is everything but a lineman. He could play in the backfield, in the slot, in the wildcat. Or, if you wanted to get really creative, you might even be able to turn him into a defensive back. 
When Michigan signed Chris Evans out of Ben Davis in Indianapolis in 2016 I saw a versatile prospect who could've filled a variety of roles. Barrett reminds me of Evans in that capacity, with a bigger arm. 
He's 5-foot-11, 215 pounds and he has terrific straight line speed. He could be a specialty package player for Michigan right away in 2018. Time will tell where he settles in position-wise. 
But a player like this should be given some leeway to float and experiment. 
Most underrated: CB Gemon Green
DeSoto (Texas) defensive back Gemon Green, in white jersey, is a three-star defensive back at 6-2 and 165 pounds.
 (Photo: Louis DeLuca The Dallas Morning News)
Gemon Green rated as the No. 380 player nationally and he (along with his twin brother, German) committed so early he seemed to get a bit lost in the shuffle. But he's a 6-foot-2, 175-pound defensive back with some real closing speed and plenty of range. 
He could be a safety, he could be a corner. Either way, he's long enough and physical enough to play man-to-man in Michigan's defense from a variety of spots on the field. 
His speed was what really stood out to me. Even when he took a wrong step in coverage, Green always seemed quick enough to get himself back in position to make a play on the football. 
This is a really nice looking defensive back prospect, despite the low ranking. 
Best position: Defensive back
Michigan added a lot of size and a lot of versatility to its defensive backfield in this class. Myles Sims is a 6-foot-3 corner who could play anywhere on the back end. He's already enrolled. 
The Green brothers and Sammy Faustin, also 6-foot-2, are in the same boat. Perhaps not as polished, but all of these players have length and man-to-man coverage instincts. Michigan wants versatile pieces on the back end, they have it. 
The addition of Rochester Adams' Vincent Gray in January gives the Wolverines another long, rangy 6-foot-2 option. 
Biggest position of need: Offensive tackle
Jalen Mayfield is a solid tackle prospect from Grand Rapids Catholic Central, though I'm not sure he's ready to play right away. Hayes, as we've established, is a fascinating prospect who could turn into a whopper of a tackle. But he's a project right now. 
Michigan needs as much tackle help as it can get and the Wolverines were in on quite a few top-end tackles this cycle. The Wolverines are still holding out hope for five-star tackle Nicholas Petite-Frere and graduate transfer Calvin Anderson, but nothing is certain there. 
Everybody needs offensive tackles every year. Michigan is absolutely no exception right now and the Wolverines could've used more in this area. 
Contact Nick Baumgardner: nbaumgardn@freepress.com. Follow him on Twitter:  @nickbaumgardner.
Download our Wolverines Xtra app for free on Apple and Android devices!
Share your feedback to help improve our site experience!
From The USA TODAY NETWORK
These sites are part of the USA TODAY NETWORK. Their content is produced independently from our newsrooms.

