LONDON CALLING
Neymar, Eden Hazard and Ronaldo among superstars making private jet trip to London for Nike event
The Brazilian World Cup winner struggled to get out of his car, while Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Christian Pulisic were reunited
Pictured
8th February 2018, 3:03 am
Updated: 12th February 2018, 2:14 pm
FOOTBALL'S biggest stars are attending Nike's event in London on Wednesday, including the likes of Ronaldo, Eden Hazard and Neymar.
A number of other players sponsored by the American brand have headed to the English capital, where the company is celebrating 20 years of the iconic Mercuial Vapour boot.
A post shared by Cristiano Ronaldo (@cristiano) on
Feb 6, 2018 at 12:05am PST
Instagram @Astarbarbers
Chelsea star Eden Hazard took a trip the barbers before attending the Nike event
Getty - Contributor
Paris Saint-Germain forward Neymar was all smiles as he rocked up in London
Arsenal ace Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang poses for the camera with the Blues winger
Rex Features
Ronaldo looked to be having difficulty getting out of his car at the event
Rex Features
The 41-year-old is widely considered to be one of the finest strikers in history
Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang was in attendance, as was former Borussia Dortmund team-mate Christian Pulisic.
Liverpool quartet Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Jordan Henderson, Emre Can and Joe Gomez travelled from Merseyside down south.
The stars were at The Printworks in Surrey Quays, south east London, as the latest installment of the Mecurial boot was unveiled.
Cristiano Ronaldo teased fans on social media recently with a video of himself sharing the face of a leopard.
Getty - Contributor
The Gunners striker is preparing to face Tottenham on Saturday in his first north London derby
The Gabon international was reunited with former Borussia Dortmund team-mate Christian Pulisic
A post shared by Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain (@alexoxchamberlain) on
Feb 7, 2018 at 6:47am PST
Getty - Contributor
Manchester United forward Alexis Sanchez was back in London for the event
Instagram @mixkult_
Two-time World Cup winner Ronaldo was a special guest at the Nike event
He captioned the post: "#bornmercurialÂ @nikefootball."
And Manchester City winger Leroy Sane shared an almost identical video of himself on Instagram, as too did Paris Saint-Germain forward Kylian Mbappe.
The new boots could follow the leopard theme in the colours of orange and black, before a revamped colourway prior to this summer's World Cup in Russia.
The sportswear giant also released new goalkeeper gloves, shinpads and a ball under the Mercurial name.
Instagram @Karamoko
Celtics 14-year-old youth prodigy Karamoko Dembele was another guest at the event
A post shared by Nike Football (Soccer) (@nikefootball) on
Feb 5, 2018 at 9:57am PST
Watford star Richarlison was joined by Brazilian compatriot Ronaldo in the capital
A post shared by Leroy SanĂŠ (@leroysane19) on
Feb 6, 2018 at 12:04am PST
Instagram @SaulNiguez

